District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
9817
CONTRACT OF PARTICIPATION
9817.1
A Contract of Participation must be executed by the Lessee(s) of the AYBL 
Family prior to entering into a Dwelling Unit Lease Agreement for a Rewards 
Property.
9817.2
AYBL participants must comply with the terms and conditions of the Dwelling 
Unit Lease Agreement and AYBL lease addendum.
9817.3
Failure  to  abide  by  the  terms  of  the  Contract  of  Participation  shall  be  
considered a violation of the lease and/or AYBL lease addendum.
9817.4
Contract Term - Term of the Contract of Participation cannot exceed five (5) 
years and will be established in consultation with the AYBL Family, based on the 
agreed upon timeframes for achieving the goals related to homeownership.
9817.5 
If at the end of the contract term, the AYBL Family successfully completes the 
Contract of Participation and is an active participant in HOAP, the family may 
request a six (6) month extension of the Contract of Participation.  Approval of an 
extension is at the sole discretion of DCHA.  If at the end of the initial six (6) 
month extension and the AYBL Family has complied with all of the HOAP 
requirements and is actively looking for a home, an additional six (6) month 
extension may be granted at the sole discretion of DCHA.
9817.6 
Requests for extensions of the contract term must be submitted to DCHA in 
writing in a form approved by DCHA at least thirty (30) days prior to the end of 
the Contract of Participation or extension and must include evidence justifying the 
request.
9817.7
AYBL Families who have identified renting in the private market without federal 
or local housing assistance are not entitled to an extension of the Contract of 
Participation. At the end of the contract term the AYBL Family must vacate the 
AYBL unit or transfer to a conventional public housing unit pursuant to the 
transfer regulations in this chapter. 
9817.8 
The Contract of Participation shall incorporate the ITSP(s) for both the potential 
borrower/co-borrower or the renter/co-renter as applicable.
9817.9 
The ITSP, in addition to identifying homeownership or renting in the private 
market as the AYBL Family's end goal, will establish interim goals by which the 
ABYL Family's progress in fulfilling its obligations will be measured. Mandatory 
minimum interim goals are to be included in the ITSP and thereby required by the 
Contract of Participation are that the AYBL Family:
(a) 
Has been admitted in the HOAP;  
Housing
14 DCMR ยง 9817
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
(b) 
Is under contract to purchase a home; or 
(c) 
Has identified a private rental unit and is in the process of executing a 
lease.  
9817.10 
Modification of the Contract of Participation -- DCHA and the AYBL Family 
may mutually agree to modify the Contract of Participation. The Contract of 
Participation may be modified in writing with respect to the Individual Training 
and Services plans, the contract term, and designation of the Head of Household.
9817.11 
Completion of the Contract of Participation -- A Contract of Participation is 
considered to be completed and a family's participation in AYBL is considered to 
conclude when the AYBL Family has fulfilled all of its obligations under the 
Contract  of  Participation  on  or  before  the  expiration  of  the  contract  term, 
including any extension thereof.
9817.12 
Non-compliance will be determined based on the requirements of the Contract of 
Participation. AYBL Families will be notified in writing for instances of non-
compliance through the issuance of a Notice of Non-Compliance.
9817.13 
Termination  of  Contract  of  Participation  --  the  Contract  of  Participation  is 
automatically  terminated  if  the  AYBL  Family's  Public  Housing  lease  is 
terminated. The Contract of Participation may be terminated before the expiration 
of the contract term, and any extension thereof, by:
(a) 
mutual consent of DCHA and the AYBL Family; 
(b) 
the failure of the AYBL Family to meet its obligations under the Contract 
of Participation without good cause; 
(c) 
the AYBL Family's withdrawal from the AYBL program; 
(d) 
such other act as is deemed inconsistent with the purpose of AYBL; or 
(e) 
operation of law. 
9817.14 
Termination of the Contract of Participation for reasons other than a breach of the 
Public Housing lease, in accordance with this section, may not result in the 
termination of Public Housing assistance. If the Contract of Participation is 
terminated for reasons that require an AYBL Family to transfer to a non-Rewards 
Property unit the AYBL family will be transferred to a conventional public 
housing unit in accordance with the AYBL transfer policy described in this 
chapter.
9817.15 
AYBL Families who successfully complete the Contract of Participation will 
transition to the HCVP/HOAP. All members of the AYBL Family must vacate the 
Housing
14 DCMR ยง 9817
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
AYBL unit at the conclusion of the family's participation in the program whether 
by termination or successful completion of the Contract of Participation.
SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 2460, 2473 (March 18, 2011); as amended by Final Rulemaking 
published at 58 DCR 4346, 4348 (May 20, 2011); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 61 DCR 1467 
(February 21, 2014).
Housing
14 DCMR ยง 9817
