District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
9110      
DELAYED FAMILY SHARE AT INITIAL CERTIFICATION 
UNDER THE RENT REFORM DEMONSTRATION
9110.1
To  help  protect  households  from  unreasonable  increases  in  TTP  when  the 
alternative rent policy is implemented, the following safeguards shall apply:
(a)
When a household’s anticipated monthly income for the coming year is 
substantially lower (i.e., by more than 10 percent) than its retrospective 
monthly income for the past year, a “temporary” TTP based on the 
anticipated income (or the minimum rent, whichever is higher) shall be set 
for a six-month “grace period.”  This grace period shall only apply, at the 
beginning  of  the  three-year  period  and  at  any  subsequent  triennial 
recertifications.  
(b)
At the end of the six-month grace period, unless the household qualifies 
for an interim recertification (see below), the temporary TTP shall expire, 
and the household shall be switched automatically to the “regular” TTP 
amount that was previously determined based on retrospective income. 
No interim is required or offered.  
(c)
If, however, at the end of the grace period, the household has not fully 
restored its income to the original retrospective gross income level, the 
household may request and shall be granted an interim recertification 
interview.  The  new  12-month  look-back  period  for  that  interim 
recertification (counting back from the end of the grace period) shall take 
into account the more recent period of lower income. The new TTP 
calculated at this interim shall apply until the next triennial recertification, 
unless an intervening interim recertification is required or the family 
receives a lower TTP as part of a hardship waiver.  
(d)
If this interim recertification (after the grace period) results in a new TTP 
that is higher than the grace-period temporary TTP, the Family may 
qualify for a hardship waiver pursuant to Section 9118. 
(e)
If a working-age/non-disabled household that is enrolled in the Rent 
Reform Demonstration subsequently becomes a fixed-income household 
due to disability by the time of its next triennial recertification, its new 
TTP shall be based on its fixed current/anticipated gross income.
SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 61 DCR 9596 (September 19, 2014).
Housing
14 DCMR § 9110
