6699
DEFINITIONS
6699.1
For the purposes of chapters 66 through chapter 69 of this subtitle, the following words and 
terms shall have the meanings ascribed:
Act - The Abatement and Condemnation of Nuisance Properties Omnibus Amendment Act 
of 2000, D.C. Law 13-381, effective April 27, 2001.
Commercial Unit - A building or part of a building, zoned for commercial purposes under 
the zoning regulations of the District of Columbia.
DCRA - The Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs.
District - The District of Columbia.
Dwelling Unit - A room, or group of rooms forming a single unit, designed or intended to be 
used, for living and sleeping, whether or not designed or intended for the preparation and 
eating of meals or to be under the exclusive control of the occupant. The term "dwelling 
unit" shall not include a room, or group of rooms forming a single unit, in a hotel or motel 
licensed by the District of Columbia.
Occupied - For the purposes of a dwelling unit, the use of one's residence in improved real 
property on a regular basis; for purposes of a commercial unit, use consistent with zoning 
regulations for which there is a current valid certificate of occupancy and the following:
(a)
Paid utility receipts for the specified period, executed lease agreements, 
or a sales tax return; or
(b)
Other evidence of use of the building that the Director may require.
Owner - One or more persons or entities with an interest in real property in the District of 
Columbia that appears in the land records of the District of Columbia.
Rental Unit - For the purposes of this chapter, "rental unit" shall have the same meaning as 
in ยง 3899.2 of chapter 38 of this title.
Superior Court - The Superior Court of the District of Columbia.
Vacant  Building -  A building  or  a  part  of  a  building  which  contains  a  dwelling  or 
commercial unit, or a part of a building which is a dwelling or commercial unit, which on or 
after the effective date of the Act, has not been occupied continuously for more than one 
hundred and eighty (180) days.
SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 7488, 7491-7492 (August 2, 
2002).
