District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
5769
OCCUPANCY OF ACCESSIBLE UNIT
5769.1
DCHA has RAD/PBV units designated for persons with mobility, sight and 
hearing impairments referred to as accessible units.
5769.2
DCHA will offer these accessible units to families in the following order:
(a)
First: Current occupant of public housing or RAD/PBV unit who has a 
disability that requires the special features of that unit;
(b)
Second: An eligible qualified applicant on the public housing waiting list 
who has a disability that requires the special features of the unit; and
(c)
Third: If there are no eligible qualified applicants on the public housing 
waiting list, an applicant who does not have a disability will be offered 
the unit. DCHA will require that the applicant who does not have a 
disability agree to sign a lease that requires the applicant to move to an 
available  non-accessible  unit  when  either  a  current  participant  or 
applicant needs the special features of the unit.
5769.3
A Reasonable Accommodation Waiting List will be created and maintained by 
date and time of request pursuant to the order of families created by ยง 5769.2.
5769.4
The first qualified current participant in sequence on the list of participants 
seeking reasonable accommodations will be offered a unit of the appropriate size 
with the special features required. If more than one unit of the appropriate size 
and type is available, the first unit offered will be the first unit that is ready for 
occupancy.
5769.5
Upon inspection of the offered unit, the participant or applicant will be required to 
sign a Letter of Acceptance/Rejection of an Accessible Unit. DCHA will maintain 
a record of units offered, including location, date and circumstances of each offer, 
each acceptance or rejection and the reason for the rejection.
5769.6
A current participant will receive two (2) offers of accessible units before his/her 
name is moved to the end of the Reasonable Accommodation Waiting List.
5769.7
An applicant will receive two (2) offers of accessible units before his/her name is 
removed from the Public Housing Waiting List.
SOURCE:  Final Rulemaking at 64 DCR 12956 (December 22, 2017); as amended by Final Rulemaking published 
at 66 DCR 6831 (June 7, 2019). 
Housing
14 DCMR ยง 5769
