District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
9219
TRANSFERS FROM HOMEOWNERSHIP TO RENTAL 
ASSISTANCE
9219.1 
Criteria for a Transfer.  DCHA shall allow a reversion from HOAP assistance to 
federal tenant-based assistance for the following reasons:
(a) 
The elderly only family fails to maintain their portion of the mortgage 
payment and is in default jeopardy of foreclosure;
(b)
The disabled only family fails to maintain their portion of the mortgage 
payment and is in default jeopardy of foreclosure;  
(c)
A family in good standing has a substantial loss of household income that 
cannot be recovered within twelve (12) months of the loss that will cause 
the family to pay zero towards their portion of mortgage payment;
(d)
At DCHA's discretion, a Family that has met all of its obligations while 
participating in the HOAP, may be allowed a reversion from HOAP 
assistance to federal tenant-based assistance; 
(e)
At DCHA’s discretion a family that is in default only because of an 
inability to inform DCHA of a change in income or family circumstance 
by reason of documented participation in a witness protection program or 
activity that would put the family under the protection of the Violence 
Against Women Act, may be allowed a reversion from HOAP assistance 
to federal tenant-based assistance; or
(f)
If the family conveys the title to the home to HUD, an approved designee 
or representative of the lender, or to DCHA. The Family shall sign a 
Conveyance  Acknowledgment  Notice,  indicating  the  requirement  to 
completely transfer and convey the property, and such notice shall be 
acceptable to the mortgage lender. Reversion during the subsidy period 
requires that HOAP will receive sales proceeds from the home in order of 
the interest held. 
9219.2
Approval of Rental Voucher. If the Family is approved for transfer from the 
HOAP, the Housing Choice Voucher Program shall issue the Family a rental 
voucher and the Family shall complete the normal voucher rental unit search 
process. During the period the Family is searching for a rental unit, if no mortgage 
default has occurred and all other program requirements have been satisfied, the 
HOAP shall continue to provide the Family with home ownership subsidy.
9219.3
Termination of all Assistance. If the family fails to transfer or convey the property 
as provided hereinabove, resulting in foreclosure of the property, the HOAP 
payment will be terminated and the HCVP will not provide the family with rental 
assistance.  If a rental assistance lease has commenced, the Housing Choice 
Housing
14 DCMR § 9219
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
Voucher Program will terminate both the family Housing Choice Voucher and the 
rental assistance payment.
9219.4
No concurrent assistance. A Family member who owns an interest in the home 
cannot receive both HOAP and rental assistance concurrently, except as provided 
in § 9219.2 above.
SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 5767 (June 21, 2002); as amended by Final Rulemaking 
published at 52 DCR 6180 (July 1, 2005); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 65 DCR 7847 (July 27, 
2018).
Housing
14 DCMR § 9219
