District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
2219
DETERMINATION OF MAXIMUM RESALE PRICE 
2219.1
The Maximum Resale Price (“MRP”) shall be equal to the greater of:
(a)
The original purchase price during the first year of ownership, or (for all 
subsequent  years)  the  Maximum  Resale  Price  of  the  previous  year, 
multiplied by the annual rate of change in the MFI over a ten year period 
starting with the first MFI published by HUD after the purchase of the 
Inclusionary Unit by the Inclusionary Unit Owner.  The resulting formula 
for the new Maximum Resale Price in any given year “n” is therefore 
MRPn = MRPn-1 + (MRPn-1 x Fn) (“Formula”), where:
(1)
n  =  is  the  current  MFI  year  starting  from  the  most  recent 
publication of the MFI by HUD; and
(2)
Fn = the rate of appreciation of the current MFI of any given year 
“n.”  Fn is calculated by determining the ten year compounded 
annual growth rate of the MFI; or
(b)
The maximum purchase price for the same unit type from the current 
published Maximum Price and Purchase Schedule as of the date of the 
Notice of Availability.
2219.2
Upon the submission of a Notice of Availability by an Inclusionary Unit Owner to 
DHCD, the Maximum Resale Price may be adjusted for the value of all the 
Eligible Capital Improvements and Eligible Replacement and Repair Costs made 
to  the  property  during  that  Inclusionary  Unit  Owner’s  ownership  of  the 
Inclusionary Unit to the extent they are permanent in nature and add to the market 
value of the property at the percentage of cost indicated:
(a)
Eligible Capital Improvements, which shall be valued at one hundred 
percent (100%) of reasonable cost, as determined by DHCD, and
(b)
Eligible Replacement and Repair Costs, which shall be valued at fifty 
percent (50%) of reasonable cost, as determined by DHCD. 
2219.3
The  Owner  of  a  For  Sale  Inclusionary  Unit  subject  to  an  Inclusionary 
Development Covenant recorded prior to the effective date of these regulations 
may choose to be subject to the terms of § 2219.1 effective as of 
(a) 
The recordation date of the Inclusionary Development Covenant; or
(b) 
The date of submission of the Notice of Availability, depending on which 
time will result in a higher Maximum Resale Price.  
Housing
14 DCMR § 2219
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
2219.4
Ineligible Costs shall not be considered in determining the value of Eligible 
Capital Improvements and Eligible Replacement and Repair Costs. 
2219.5
The  value  of  improvements  may  be  determined  by  DHCD  based  upon 
documentation provided by the Inclusionary Unit Owner or, if not provided, upon 
a standard value established by DHCD.
2219.6
DHCD may disallow an Eligible Capital Improvement or Eligible Replacement 
and Repair Cost if DHCD finds that the improvement diminished or did not 
increase the fair market value of the Inclusionary Unit. 
2219.7
DHCD may reduce the value of an improvement claimed by the Inclusionary Unit 
Owner if there is evidence of abnormal physical deterioration of, or abnormal 
wear and tear to, the improvement.
2219.8
The Owner shall permit a representative of DHCD to inspect the Inclusionary 
Unit upon request to verify the existence and value of any improvements that are 
claimed by the Inclusionary Unit Owner. 
2219.9
An allowance may be made in the Maximum Resale Price for the payment of 
legal fees, closing costs (including, but not limited to, title insurance and filing 
fees) and real estate broker or salesperson fees associated with the sale of the 
Inclusionary Unit if written approval is obtained from DHCD. 
2219.10
The value of personal property transferred to a purchaser in connection with the 
resale of a For Sale Inclusionary Unit shall not be considered part of the sales 
price of the For Sale Inclusionary Unit for the purposes of determining whether 
the sales price of the For Sale Inclusionary Unit exceeds the Maximum Resale 
Price.
SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 3907 (May 15, 2009); as amended by Final 
Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 9295, 9296 (December 11, 2009); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 
64 DCR 13582 (December 29, 2017). 
Housing
14 DCMR § 2219
