District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
3918 
APPEARANCES AND REPRESENTATION
3918.1
In any proceeding before the Rent Administrator, a party may be represented as 
follows:
(a)
Any person may be represented by an attorney or other person who may 
provide legal services in accordance with § 3918.8;
(b)
An individual or beneficiary of a trust may appear on his or her own 
behalf;
(c)
A trustee, receiver, executor, or administrator may appear on behalf of a 
trust or estate;
(d)
A guardian, next friend of a minor, or other person authorized by statute to 
do so may represent another person;
(e)
An individual may appear on behalf of a corporation, limited liability 
company, or other business entity if the individual is an executive, 
director, officer, manager, proprietor, general partner, or other authorized 
decision-maker for entity; or
(f)
A tenant or a group of tenants may be represented by a tenant association, 
whether incorporated or not; provided, that:
(1)
A statement is filed with the Rental Accommodations Division that 
each tenant consents to the representation and that the association 
consents to represent the tenant;
(2)
Neither the tenant nor the tenant association has revoked consent to 
the representation; and
(3)
The association is represented by an attorney or person who may 
provide legal services in accordance with paragraph (a) or by a 
member of the tenant association selected by its members through 
a process that can be documented in accordance with § 3918.4.
3918.2
Any individual who wishes to appear in a representative capacity before the Rent 
Administrator shall file a written notice of appearance stating the individual’s 
name, local address, telephone number, District of Columbia Bar identification 
number, if applicable, and for whom the appearance is made.  Written notice may 
be filed concurrently with a notice of appeal.
3918.3
An attorney or other representative of record who is served with any documents 
related to a matter before the Rent Administrator, but who does not wish to or is 
no longer representing the party before the Rent Administrator, shall immediately 
Housing
14 DCMR § 3918
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
notify the party of the service and, if the attorney or representative has entered an 
appearance before the Rent Administrator, shall file a motion to withdraw.
3918.4
An attorney or other representative may limit the scope of his or her appearance 
by specifying in the notice of appearance the date, time period, activity, or subject 
matter for which the appearance is made.  A limited appearance shall terminate 
automatically, without a motion to withdraw, upon the date or end of the time 
period specified, or upon the filing of a notice of completion with the Rent 
Administrator and service of the notice upon all parties.
3918.5
Any person appearing before or transacting business with the Rent Administrator 
in a representative capacity may be required by order of the Rent Administrator to 
establish the authority to act on behalf of the represented party by affidavit, 
written authorization, bylaws of an organization, or other proof the Rent 
Administrator may deem sufficient.
3918.6
A party who appears on his or her own behalf as provided in § 3918.1(b) may be 
assisted by a family member or close personal friend, where the party is incapable 
of presenting his or her case because of a language barrier or physical, mental, or 
intellectual disability.
3918.7
Nothing in this section shall prohibit the provision of technical assistance by a 
non-profit community service agency or the Office of the Tenant Advocate.
3918.8
A person may be represented by an attorney or other person who may provide 
legal services if the attorney or provider is:
(a)
An active member in good standing of the District of Columbia Bar or 
otherwise authorized to practice law pursuant to the Rule 49(c) of the 
Rules of the District of Columbia Court of Appeals (“D.C. App. R.”);
(b)
Admitted to practice before the highest court of any state upon the 
granting by the Rent Administrator of a motion to appear pro hac vice; or
(c)
A law student or recent graduate who is practicing under the supervision 
of an attorney authorized to practice law in the District of Columbia in 
compliance with D.C. App. R. 48, with or without being enrolled in a 
clinical program.
3918.9
An attorney wishing to appear pro hac vice in accordance with § 3918.7(b) shall 
file a motion in which the attorney shall make, under penalty of perjury, all 
declarations required for admission pro hac vice in the Courts of the District of 
Columbia under D.C. App. R. 49(c)(7) and attest that the attorney has read the 
rules of the Rental Accommodations Division in this chapter.
Housing
14 DCMR § 3918
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
3918.10
A law student or recent graduate wishing to appear as an attorney in accordance 
with § 3918.7(c) shall:
(a)
Meet all requirements of D.C. App. R. 49(b) and (c);
(b)
Have the consent and oversight of a supervising attorney assigned to the 
law student;
(c)
Sign a notice of appearance in the case with the supervising attorney and 
file such notice with the Rent Administrator;
(d)
Have the written permission of the client, which must be filed in the 
record;
(e)
Not file any paper unless the law student and supervising attorney sign it;
(f)
Not appear at any proceeding without the supervising attorney;
(g)
Neither ask for nor receive a fee of any kind for any services provided 
under this rule, except for the payment of any regular salary made to the 
law student; and
(h)
Comply with any limitations ordered by the Rent Administrator.
3918.11
An attorney who has appeared pro hac vice before the Office of Administrative 
Hearings pursuant to 1 DCMR § 2833 or the Commission pursuant to § 3812 of 
this title may appear before the Rent Administrator in the same matter if it has 
been remanded to the Rent Administrator without filing a new motion or notice to 
so appear.
3918.12
An individual whose practice or appearance before the Office of Administrative 
Hearings or the Commission has been restricted shall be subject to the same 
restriction before the Rent Administrator.
3918.13
The Rent Administrator may disqualify or deny, temporarily or permanently, the 
privilege of appearing or practicing before the Rent Administrator to any 
individual who is found by the Rent Administrator, after notice and an 
opportunity to respond, either to be lacking in the requisite qualifications to 
represent others or to have engaged in unethical, improper, or unprofessional 
conduct; provided, that any individual who is appearing or practicing before the 
Rent Administrator who willfully misleads the Rent Administrator or the staff of 
the Rental Accommodations Division by a false statement of fact or law shall be 
disqualified permanently.
Housing
14 DCMR § 3918
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
3918.14
An attorney who fails to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Professional 
Conduct may be referred to the Office of Disciplinary Counsel or may be 
disqualified from appearing before the Rent Administrator.
3918.15
An individual appearing before the Rent Administrator who is or ever has been a 
member of the District of Columbia Bar or the bar of any state shall be subject to 
the standards of conduct for an attorney under this section, regardless of whether 
that person appears as a non-attorney representative; provided, that nothing in this 
subsection shall prohibit an individual, receiver, or beneficiary from appearing 
pro se in accordance with § 3918.1(b).
3918.16
In the event of any conflict between this section and D.C. App. R. 48 or 49, the 
D.C. App. R. shall control.  If the D.C. App. R. would permit an individual to 
appear before a tribunal but this section would not, the individual may appear 
unless that individual’s practice or appearance has been specifically restricted for 
other reasons or the individual fails to make any required filings with the Rent 
Administrator.  Except to the extent permitted by D.C. App. R. 49(c)(5), allowing 
District agencies to regulate non-attorney practice, an individual not authorized to 
practice law in the District of Columbia may not appear in a representative 
capacity before the Rent Administrator.
SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 68 DCR 012634 (December 3, 2021).
Housing
14 DCMR § 3918
