1920
ANNUAL TENANT RE-EXAMINATIONS
1920.1
To ensure that participation in the program is restricted to families or individuals continuing to 
meet the eligibility requirements, and that such families or individuals are paying appropriate 
total tenant payments, the eligibility status and the income of each participant shall be re-
examined and redetermined annually by DCHA.
1920.2
For each participant the annual re-examination effective date shall be the anniversary date of the 
first day of the month in which the participant began receiving assistance; Provided, that DCHA 
may adjust the re-examination date in properties containing a significant number of tenants in 
order to schedule some or all tenant re- examinations in the same property at the same time.
1920.3
Ninety (90) calendar days prior to the re-examination effective date, DCHA shall schedule a re-
examination interview and notify the participant. At the interview the participant shall be 
responsible for providing to DCHA a completed application for continued assistance, and 
appropriate documents or third-party verification request forms confirming income, assets or 
other information as requested by DCHA.
1920.4
If a participant experiences difficulty in securing the required information or other events result 
in a delay of the re-examination process, DCHA may not extend the re-examination effective 
date.
1920.5
DCHA shall continue current assistance payments beginning on the effective date and shall 
determine assistance at a recalculated level retroactive to the effective date once the re-
examination process is complete. If the tenant has not completed the re-examination process 
within ninety (90) calendar days of the re-examination effective date, assistance shall be 
terminated.
1920.6
Tenant failure to report to the scheduled re-examination interview or to reschedule the interview 
for another time within fifteen (15) calendar days of the notice, shall cause termination of 
assistance on the re-examination effective date.
1920.7
If a tenant fails to report for an interview due to a situation determined by DCHA to have been an 
emergency, the re-examination interview may be rescheduled once.
1920.8
DCHA re-examination activities shall include the following:
(a)
The tenant shall complete an application and provide current information needed for 
re-examination;
(b)
DCHA shall compare the family size to the occupancy standards set forth in ยง 1813. 
The family may be issued a new Certificate of Eligibility in accordance with ยง 1820 
if required because of changes in family composition;
(c)
DCHA shall obtain from the housing provider the contract rent to be charged for the 
coming year and information on any changes in tenant-paid utilities;
(d)
DCHA shall compute annual and adjusted income and total tenant payment and 
determine any required change in Tenant Rent, Utility Allowance, and Tenant 
Assistance Payment in accordance with ยง 1908. Any changes in assistance payments, 
Tenant Rent, and Utility Allowances shall be effective on the re-examination 
effective date; and
(e)
Upon completion of the re-examination, DCHA shall revise the Tenant Assistance 
Contract to incorporate any revised tenant assistance payment and shall renew the 
contract with the housing provider for a one (1) year term.
1920.9
A tenant who is determined ineligible for continued assistance at the annual re- examination shall 
be so notified in accordance with ยง 1804 of this subtitle.
SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 4396, 4421 (July 25, 1986); as 
amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 4472, 4481 (June 23, 1989).
