District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
5733
REQUEST FOR HEARING
5733.1
(a)  
If  after  the  informal  settlement  conference  the  complainant  is  not 
satisfied with the proposed disposition of his or her complaint, he or she 
may submit in person or by mail a written request for a hearing. Upon 
request, DCHA or the Project Owner will assist a complainant in putting 
his or her request for a hearing in writing. The written request shall be 
provided:
(1) 
To the Office of Fair Hearings (OFH); or
(2) 
To the OFH through the office of the property in which the 
complainant resides. 
A complaint form will also be available to residents at the OFH and at the 
office of the property in which the complainant resides.
   
(b)  
On  determinations  of  ineligibility  for  applicants  for  RAD  Covered 
Projects, applicants may submit a written hearing request in person to the 
OFH or by mail to the OFH.  The notice will include the complaint form 
by which families can request a hearing and return it to DCHA. The 
complaint form will also be available to applicants and residents at the 
OFH.
(a)
For a determination to terminate assistance, DCHA shall provide the 
resident with written notice of the determination to terminate assistance 
within thirty days (30) days of the determination.  The notice shall include 
the complaint form by which residents can request a hearing. The written 
hearing request shall be provided to the OFH. 
5733.2
A complainant’s request for a hearing shall be in writing and shall be filed as 
follows:
(a)
If the complainant is a resident, within seven (7) business days from the 
date the answer is served; 
(b)
If the complainant is an applicant, within ten (10) business days from the 
date the answer is mailed; or
(c)
If the participant’s hearing request concerns a determination to terminate 
assistance, within thirty-five (35) calendar days from the date of the 
issuance of the recommendation for termination of assistance by DCHA.
Housing
14 DCMR § 5733
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
5733.3
If a complainant does not request a hearing within the time specified in §§ 
5733.2(a)-(b), the Project Owner’s disposition of the complaint under § 5732.4 
shall become final. If a participant does not request a hearing within the time 
specified in § 5733.2(c), DCHA’s determination to terminate assistance shall 
become final. This shall not constitute a waiver of the complainant’s right to 
contest DCHA’s or Project Owner’s actions in an appropriate judicial proceeding.
5733.4
For hearing requests made pursuant to § 5733.1(c), once a participant files a 
timely  request  for  a  hearing,  the  Housing  Assistance  Payments  (HAP)  will 
continue to the Project Owner in accordance with the current HAP contract in 
effect at the time of the request for a hearing until a final determination has been 
made in accordance with this chapter.
5733.5
Upon receipt of a request for a hearing, OFH shall assign a hearing officer to the 
complaint from the pool of hearing officers selected pursuant to § 5734.1, on a 
rotating basis to the extent possible.
5733.6
Within fifteen (15) business days, OFH shall schedule a hearing time, date and 
place, reasonably convenient to both the complainant and DCHA, and shall notify 
the complainant and DCHA.
5733.7
Within thirty (30) days of the date the hearing is scheduled, OFH shall convene 
the hearing, unless rescheduled for good cause. 
5733.8
Requests to reschedule a Hearing shall be subject to the following conditions: 
(a)
Either party may request to reschedule an Informal Hearing any time prior 
to the first scheduled Informal Hearing date or prior to any subsequent 
hearing date, only if the requesting party can demonstrate good cause and 
if delay will not result in harm or prejudice to the other party. 
(b)
Notwithstanding the paragraph above, OFH will reschedule a Hearing as a 
reasonable accommodation if the complainant can demonstrate that a 
disability prevented them from rescheduling within the prescribed time 
periods. 
SOURCE:  Final Rulemaking at 64 DCR 12956 (December 22, 2017); as amended by Final Rulemaking published 
at 66 DCR 6831 (June 7, 2019). 
Housing
14 DCMR § 5733
