7141
SUSPENSION AND/OR REMOVAL OR TERMINATION
7141.1
It is the aim of the Authority to make clear its expectations for performance and conduct of 
its  employees  and  to  address  situations  in  which  expectations  are  not  met  through  a 
corrective action plan before formal discipline is imposed. However, when such an approach 
does not achieve the desired result or when violations are serious or repeated, immediate 
disciplinary removal action may be required and will be imposed. The Executive Director 
may place an employee on immediate suspension. The following shall illustrate, but not 
limit, causes for immediate suspension or removal:
(a)
Gross negligence or willful neglect of duty.
(b)
Theft, destruction, or gross neglect in the use of Authority property or materials, or 
of property or materials of any other person or tenant organization while the 
employee is on duty or on Authority property.
(c)
Being under the influence or impaired by alcohol while on duty or performing 
Housing Authority business or while on Authority property, or in an Authority 
vehicle.
(d)
Bringing a weapon into or on a work location or Authority property without the 
permission of the Executive Director. This provision does not apply to employees 
whose positions require carrying firearms.
(e)
Conduct while on duty which violates common decency and morality (including, 
but not limited to, dishonesty, theft, sexual misconduct, drunkenness) of the 
community; less than professional involvement with tenants.
(f)
Engaging in sabotage or a slowdown of work production.
(g)
Insubordination or refusing to comply with the orders of an authorized supervisor 
or refusing to do assigned work.
(h)
Lying to supervisors or falsifying records including, but not limited to, official 
duties, work duties, time and attendance records, discipline, original application 
for employment, or any documents supplementing the original application.
(i)
Threatening, fighting with, intimidating, abusing or coercing other employees, 
residents or officials of the Authority or provoking such actions by others.
(j)
Using, selling, purchasing, transferring, or possessing an illegal drug or having an 
illegal drug in one’s system while on Authority property or while performing 
Authority business. Also using a legally obtained drug (e.g., prescription drugs) 
while performing Authority business or while on Authority property if such use 
adversely  affects  the  safety  of  co-workers  or  members  of  the  public,  the 
employee’s job performance, or the safe and efficient operation of the Authority or 
as defined in the Drug-Free Workplace Act.
(k)
Absence from work when the employee has requested permission to be absent and 
the request has been denied.
(l)
Accepting gratuities, favors, gifts or special consideration for the performance of 
his/her official duties. Employees may not accept pay, either in money or in kind, 
from a resident for any reason. Likewise, all gifts donated by vendors must be used 
for specific Authority activities and are not to be kept by any individual employee.
(m)
Using official position or authority for personal profit or advantage, including 
kickbacks.
(n)
Divulging  confidential  information  from  privileged  official  records  to 
unauthorized individuals.
(o)
Conviction of a crime which impacts on the individual’s ability or fitness to 
perform the duties and responsibilities of the job or has an adverse affect on the 
Authority  should  the  employee  continue  such  employment.  Conviction  shall 
include a plea of nolo contendere or acceptance of a deferred sentence.
(p)
Failure to observe safety regulations which jeopardizes the safety of other persons 
or results in major damage or destruction of property.
(q)
Failure to return to work at the end of a period of approved leave, including leave 
of absence.
(r)
Sexual harassment which affects a term or condition of employment or which is 
the  basis  of  an  employment  decision  affecting  the  employee  or  prospective 
employee, or sexual harassment of a tenant, and as further described in § 7143 of 
this chapter.
(s)
Intimidation, coercion, discrimination or reprisal:
(1)
Against the parties, representative of the parties, or their witnesses as a 
result of being designated as a party, a representative or a witness at an 
arbitration or hearing; or
(2)
Against participants in a departmental or Authority investigation or 
disciplinary procedure or grievance.
(t)
Discrimination as defined in the D.C. Human Rights Act of 1977 (D.C. Law 2-38) 
to include, but not be limited to, race, age, creed, color, language, sex, socio-
economical/cultural  background,  political  affiliation,  marital  status,  national 
origin, religion, sexual orientation or, disability.
(u)
Divulging confidential information about an Authority resident or participant, 
without the approval of that resident or participant, except as required in the 
performance of assigned duties or by law.
(v)
Continued absence after exhaustion of all accrued leave.
(w)
Uninsurability  under  the  Authority’s  insurance  policy,  if  driving  is  a  job 
requirement.
(x)
Failure to report to his or her supervisor any Driving Under the Influence (DUI) or 
Driving While Ability is Impaired (DWAI) charge occurring on or off the job 
which results in the loss of a driver’s license or the restriction of driving privileges, 
if the employee is required to drive as part of his or her job.
(y)
Failure to report to his or her supervisor any conviction under a criminal drug 
statute  for  violations  occurring  on  or  off  the  Authority  premises,  or  while 
conducting Authority business.
(z)
Failure to comply with the Fleet Management Policy and Procedures Manual.
(aa)
Inability to perform duties assigned which includes, but is not limited to, being 
charged with a felony or any other offense involving moral turpitude, when such 
action or offense adversely affects the employee’s ability or fitness to perform 
duties assigned or has an adverse effect on the agency should the employee 
continue employment.
(bb)
Willful misconduct which includes, but is not limited to, willful violation of the 
personnel policy.
(cc)
Conviction of a crime which impacts on the individual’s ability or fitness to 
perform the duties and responsibilities of the job or has an adverse affect on the 
Authority  should  the  employee  continue  such  employment.  Conviction  shall 
include a plea of nolo contendere or acceptance of a deferred sentence.
7141.2
Removal of collective bargaining unit employees must also  be in accordance with the 
collective bargaining agreement.
7141.3
Temporary or special program employees  may be terminated at any time for any reason 
except  discrimination  because  of  race,  age,  creed,  color,  language,  sex,  socio-
economical/cultural background, political affiliation, marital status, national origin, religion, 
sexual orientation or disability.
SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 42 DCR 6914, 6936 (December 8, 
1995).
