District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
5767
REQUEST FOR REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS
5767.1
A person with a disability may request a reasonable accommodation at any time 
during the application process or participation in the RAD/PBV Programs of 
DCHA. All requests must be reduced to writing by the individual, any person 
identified by the individual, or by the Project Owner or DCHA staff member to 
whom the request is made.
5767.2
Reasonable accommodation methods or actions that may be appropriate for a 
particular program and individual may be found to be inappropriate for another 
program or individual. The decision to approve or deny a request for a reasonable 
accommodation is made on a case by case basis and takes into consideration the 
disability and the needs of the individual as well as the nature of the program or 
activity in which the individual seeks to participate. The following provisions 
apply to Requests for Reasonable Accommodations:
(a)
All  applicants  will  be  provided  the  Request  for  a  Reasonable 
Accommodation Form with the application, and upon request.
(b)
All participants will be provided the Request Form again at the time of 
recertification, and upon request.
(c)
DCHA  will  respond  in  writing  to  all  requests  for  reasonable 
accommodation.
(d)
All decisions to grant or to deny reasonable accommodations will be 
communicated in writing and in the form requested by the individual.
5767.3
Examples of reasonable accommodations may include, but are not limited to:
(a)
Making  a  unit,  part  of  a  unit  or  public  and  common  use  element 
accessible for the head of household or a household member with a 
disability that is on the lease;
(b)
Permitting a family to have a service or assistance animal necessary to 
assist a family member with a disability;
(c)
Allowing a live-in aide to reside in an appropriately sized RAD Covered 
Project unit;
(d)
Transferring a participant to a larger size unit to provide a separate 
bedroom for a person with a disability;
(e)
Transferring a participant to a unit on a lower level or a unit that is 
completely on one level;
Housing
14 DCMR ยง 5767
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
(f)
Making documents available in large type, computer disc or Braille;
(g)
Making interpreters available to meet with staff or at resident meetings;
(h)
Installing strobe type flashing lights and other such equipment for a 
family member with a hearing impairment; or
(i)
Permitting an outside agency or family member to assist a participant or 
an applicant in meeting screening criteria or meeting essential lease 
obligations.
SOURCE:  Final Rulemaking at 64 DCR 12956 (December 22, 2017); as amended by Final Rulemaking published 
at 66 DCR 6831 (June 7, 2019). 
Housing
14 DCMR ยง 5767
