District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
6125
PREFERENCES FOR PLACEMENT ELIGIBILITY FOR 
HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER PROGRAM APPLICANTS
6125.1 
The waiting list guidelines for admission to the HCVP are found at § 6103 and are 
incorporated into the Administrative Plan by reference.
6125.2
Applicants eligible for preferences shall be selected from the waiting lists in order 
of priority as set forth below:
(a)
Substandard Housing. The substandard preference is divided into three 
major ranking factors and is implemented in the following priority order:
(1)
Homeless, as explained in § 6125.3;
(2)
Applicants residing in units that have been declared unfit for 
habitation or which contain one or more Housing Quality Standard 
or local housing code violations as explained in § 6125.3; and
(b) Involuntarily Displaced, as explained at § 6125.5 through § 6125.8; and
(c) Rent Burdened, as explained at § 6125.9; and 
(d) Disabled families as defined in § 5999.
6125.3
DCHA shall give highest placement priority on the waiting list to Homeless 
applicant families as defined by D.C. Official Code § 4-751.01 (2008 Repl. & 
2011 Supp.) who can demonstrate that they no longer have a place to live or are in 
jeopardy of losing their residence.  The following types of documentation are 
acceptable to support the status of the Family as homeless:
(a)
Documentation from a social worker, police officer, shelter, or other 
qualified source showing that the applicant’s primary nighttime residence 
is a public or private shelter, street, condemned building, or other place 
not fit for habitation;
(b)
Documentation showing residency in a temporary residence facility which 
may include a nursing home, hospital, or mental health facility;
(c)
Documentation of residency in a transitional housing facility, showing 
residence is for no more than twenty-four (24) months;
(d)
Documentation from a social worker, police officer, shelter, or other 
qualified source, that the applicant Family is considered to be chronically 
homeless based upon four (4) incidences as described above in the one (1) 
year period preceding the date of application; or 
Housing
14 DCMR § 6125
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
(e)
Documentation that the applicant Family is living with another household 
or in another living situation that is tenuous and where the applicant 
Family has no legal right to occupy the unit, for example, where the right 
to remain has been revoked by lawful tenant or could be revoked at any 
time.
6125.4
DCHA shall give placement priority to referrals to DCHA from the Executive 
Office of the Mayor or designated District of Columbia agency of households 
who  currently  reside  in  substandard  housing  and  units  declared  unfit  for 
habitation. The aggregate number of outstanding vouchers authorized for use is 
set by the Board of Commissioners from time to time.
6125.5 
DCHA shall give placement priority to an applicant Family who is involuntarily 
displaced due to a disaster.  The applicant Family shall provide documentation 
from a qualified person or agency regarding the disaster and the unit conditions.
6125.6
DCHA shall give placement priority to an applicant Family who is involuntarily 
displaced  due  to  federal,  state,  or  local  government  action  related  to  code 
enforcement  or  public  improvement.   The  applicant  Family  shall  provide 
documentation from the listed agency taking the relevant action.
6125.7
DCHA shall give placement priority to an applicant Family who is involuntarily 
displaced due to action by an owner or landlord beyond the Family’s control.  The 
applicant Family shall provide the notice from the landlord or owner on actions or 
notice to vacate said property.  Examples include:
(a)
Foreclosure documents;
(b)
Notice to Vacate with the reason for the action; and
 
(c)
Eviction Notice with the reason for the action.
6125.8
DCHA shall give placement priority to an applicant Family who is involuntarily 
displaced  due  to  Domestic  Violence.   The  applicant  Family  shall  provide 
documentation from a social worker, police officer, shelter, or other qualified 
source regarding the incident or incidences of domestic violence and current 
housing arrangements for the applicant Family. 
6125.9
DCHA shall give placement priority to an applicant Family who is claiming that 
its current rent is creating a financial burden.  The applicant Family shall provide 
DCHA with its current lease agreement, current utilities paid by the applicant 
Family and a financial affidavit of current income. 
6125.10  
Permanent  Supportive  Housing  -  HCVP  Applicants  are  included  under  this 
preference if an applicant is referred to DCHA by an agency of the District of 
Columbia government as an individual or family in need of permanent supportive 
Housing
14 DCMR § 6125
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
housing  for  chronically  homeless  individuals  and  families  with  histories  of 
homelessness.  Up to three hundred sixty-two (362) vouchers are authorized for 
this purpose; provided however, to the extent any voucher issued under this 
provision is attrited, the number of vouchers authorized for this purpose shall be 
reduced and such voucher shall be returned to the DCHA HCVP inventory. 
6125.11 
Long Term Care Housing Limited Local Preference - HCVP Applicants are 
included under this preference if an applicant is referred to DCHA by an agency 
of the District of Columbia government as a person in need of housing with added 
wrap-around  health  care  and  in-home  and  community  based  services.  The 
applicants are either people with disabilities or the elderly who desire to maintain 
their independent living. Up to sixty-five (65) vouchers are authorized for this 
purpose; provided however, to the extent any voucher issued under this provision 
is attrited, the number of vouchers authorized for this purpose shall be reduced 
and such voucher shall be returned to the DCHA HCVP inventory. 
6125.12  
Shelter System Relief- Limited Local Preference - Applicants are included under 
this preference if an applicant is referred to DCHA by District of Columbia 
Department  of  Human  Services  ("DHS")  or  some  other  District  agency  as 
designated  by  the  Office  of  the  Mayor  as  a  homeless  individual  or  family 
temporarily housed in a shelter and such applicant meets the DHS eligibility 
requirements in addition to the DCHA HCVP program requirements.  Up to one 
hundred  thirteen  (113)  vouchers  are  authorized  for  this  purpose;  provided 
however, to the extent any voucher issued under this provision is attrited, the 
number of vouchers authorized for this purpose shall be reduced and such voucher 
shall be returned to the DCHA HCVP inventory. 
6125.13
Limited Local Preference for Condemnation Vouchers.  Applicants are included 
under this preference if the Family is an occupant in a designated property the 
District  of  Columbia  government  has  identified  to  DCHA  as  targeted  for 
condemnation due to an inability to meet District of Columbia housing codes. The 
aggregate number of outstanding vouchers authorized for use is set by the Board 
of Commissioners from time to time; provided however, to the extent any voucher 
issued under this provision is attrited, the number of vouchers authorized for this 
purpose shall be reduced and such voucher shall be returned to the DCHA HCVP 
inventory. 
6125.14
Limited Local Preference for DCHA Mandatory Transfers Based on Emergency 
Conditions or other Threat to Life, Health or Safety.  Applicants are included 
under  this  preference  if  the  applicant  is  a  current  public  housing  head  of 
household living in a public housing unit where DCHA has determined such 
resident  needs  to  be  relocated  pursuant  to  a  mandatory  transfer  based  on 
emergency conditions in the current unit, or other threat  to life, safety or health of 
the current unit in accordance with 14 DCMR § 6401.1(a), and no other suitable 
public housing unit or DCHA-controlled Rental Assistance Demonstration unit is 
available as determined by DCHA. 
Housing
14 DCMR § 6125
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
6125.15
[RESERVED]
6125.16
Limited Local Preferences Regarding Project-Based Units.
(a) 
Section  6125  of  Title  14  of  the  District  of  Columbia  Municipal 
Regulations in order to establish a limited local preference to authorize 
DCHA  to offer a project-based unit to a current public housing resident in 
need  of  a  mandatory  transfer  based  on  the  condition  of  the  unit  in 
accordance with 14 DCMR Section 6401.1(a), a public safety concern 
under  14  DCMR  6401.1(c),  or  relocation  required  under  14  DCMR 
Section  6401.1  (d)  or  (e)  based  on  a  substantial  rehabilitation  or 
modernization of a public housing unit or redevelopment of a public 
housing site. Such limited local preference is applicable in the event there 
are no other appropriate public housing units, or DCHA-controlled Rental 
Assistance Demonstration (RAD) units.
(b) 
This limited local preference will prioritize these offers of project-based 
units after transfers among project–based units, but prior to applicants 
pulled from the Housing Choice Voucher waiting list. The residents must 
otherwise meet the income requirements and eligibility requirements of 
the Housing Choice Voucher Program and the tenant selection plan.
SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 7963, 7964 (June 29, 2012); as amended by Final Rulemaking 
published at 61 DCR 6202 (June 20, 2014); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 63 DCR 12365 (October 
7, 2016); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 66 DCR 6953, 6955 (June 7, 2019). 
Housing
14 DCMR § 6125
