District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
5720
UTILITY ALLOWANCE 
5720.1
DCHA shall establish on a project basis, in accordance with Federal regulations, 
appropriate utility allowances for tenants with individual utility meters.
 
5720.2
Allowances  shall  be  based  on  average  consumption  levels  and  information 
provided by the D.C. Public Service Commission regarding rates approved for 
utility companies supplying electricity or gas to those dwelling units.
5720.3
Average consumption level calculations shall take into account major equipment 
provided by DCHA at the project or property and shall make allowance for minor 
equipment normally provided by the tenant, except that items provided by the 
tenant listed in § 5721.1 of this chapter shall not be considered in development of 
average consumption calculations.
5720.4
As utility rates in the District of Columbia are revised, DCHA shall revise its 
utility allowances when there is a rate change that, by itself or together with prior 
rate changes not adjusted for, results in a change of 10 percent (10%) or more 
from the rates on which the current allowance was based for a specific utility. 
When DCHA revises a utility allowance, it shall do the following:
(a)
Provide notice to tenants regarding increases or decreases in Tenant Rent 
due to revised utility allowances;
(b)
Make Tenant Rent increases effective at the start of the first month 
following thirty (30) days’ notice to the tenant, and make Tenant Rent 
decreases effective at the start of the first month following the change in 
utility allowance; and
(c)
Prepare and execute a special supplement to the dwelling lease, with an 
explanation of the reason(s) for the change.
5720.5
Actual charges billed directly to the tenant shall be his or her responsibility, 
regardless of whether the charges are above or below the utility allowance 
approved by DCHA.
5720.6
The DCHA shall also establish appropriate utility allowances, on a project basis, 
for tenants with checkmeters where DCHA pays the utility supplier but individual 
units have checkmeters that measure consumption rates for the unit.
5720.7
The DCHA shall be authorized to obtain records of tenants’ utility consumption 
and related charges billed data from utility companies for tenants with individual 
utility meters who pay for their own electricity or gas.
SOURCE:  Final Rulemaking at 64 DCR 12956 (December 22, 2017); as amended by Final Rulemaking published 
at 66 DCR 6831 (June 7, 2019). 
Housing
14 DCMR § 5720
