District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
2299
DEFINITIONS
2299.1
When used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the 
meanings ascribed below:
Annual Income – annual income as defined in 24 CFR § 5.609 as of the effective 
date of these amended regulations.
Bedroom – a room with immediate access to an exterior window and a closet that 
is designated as a “bedroom” or “sleeping room” on construction plans 
submitted with an application for a building permit for an Inclusionary 
Development.
Certificate of Inclusionary Zoning Compliance -  a document issued by the 
DCRA’s  Office  of  the  Zoning  Administrator  certifying  that  an 
Inclusionary  Development  meets  the  Inclusionary  Zoning  Program 
requirements.
Certificate of Occupancy -  a document issued by the DCRA’s Office of the 
Zoning Administrator certifying a building's compliance with applicable 
building codes and other laws, and indicating it to be in a condition 
suitable for occupancy.
Certifying Entity – DHCD or a third party entity approved by DHCD pursuant to 
§ Error: Reference source not found.
DCRA – the District Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs.
Dependent –  an individual as defined in § 152 of the United States Internal 
Revenue Code (26 USC § 152).
District – the District of Columbia.
DHCD – the District Department of Housing and Community Development.
Eligible  Capital  Improvement  –  major  structural  system  upgrades,  special 
assessments, new additions, and improvements related to increasing the 
health,  safety,  or  energy  efficiency  of  an  Inclusionary  Unit.  Such 
improvements  generally  include:  (i)  major  electrical  wiring  system 
upgrades; (ii) major plumbing system upgrades; (iii) room additions; (iv) 
installation of additional closets and walls; (v) alarm systems; (vi) removal 
of  toxic  substances,  such  as  asbestos,  lead,  mold,  or  mildew;  (vii) 
insulation  or  upgrades  to  double-paned  windows  or  glass  fireplace 
screens; and (viii) upgrade to Energy Star built-in appliances, such as 
furnaces,  water  heaters,  stoves,  ranges,  dishwashers,  and  microwave 
hoods.
Housing
14 DCMR § 2299
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
Eligible Household – a Household with a total Annual Income adjusted for 
Household size equal to or less than fifty percent (50%) of the MFI, sixty 
percent (60%) of the MFI, eighty percent (80%) of the MFI, or other 
percentage of the MFI established by an order approving a Planned Unit 
Development pursuant to Chapter 3 of Title 11-X DCMR.
Eligible  Replacement  and  Repair  Cost  –  in-kind  replacement  of  existing 
amenities and repairs and general maintenance that keep an Inclusionary 
Unit in good working condition.  Such improvements generally include: 
(i) electrical maintenance and repair, such as switches and outlets; (ii) 
plumbing maintenance and repair, such as faucets, supply lines, and sinks; 
(iii) replacement or repair of flooring, countertops, cabinets, bathroom tile, 
or  bathroom  vanities;  (iv)  non-Energy  Star  replacement  of  built-in 
appliances, including furnaces, water heaters, stoves, ranges, dishwashers, 
and microwave hoods; (v) replacement of window sashes; (vi) fireplace 
maintenance or in-kind replacement; (vii) heating system maintenance and 
repairs; and (viii) lighting system.
For  Sale  Inclusionary  Development  –  the  portion  of  an  Inclusionary 
Development that includes or will include Inclusionary Units that will be 
sold to Households.
For Sale Inclusionary Unit – an Inclusionary Unit that will be or has been sold 
to a Household.
Full Time Student - a person who is enrolled in a class load that is considered 
full-time for day students under the standards and practices of the college 
or university attended by that person. 
Guardian - a person who is appointed by court order and who is charged with the 
care, custody, and responsibility of a person under the age of eighteen (18) 
years.
Household – all persons who will occupy the Inclusionary Unit.  A Household 
may be a single family, one (1) person living alone, two (2) or more 
families living together, or any other group of related or unrelated persons 
who share living arrangements. 
Housing Locator Website – a website established or designated by the District or 
DHCD pursuant to the Affordable Housing Clearinghouse Directory Act 
of 2008, effective August 15, 2008 (D.C. Law 17-215; D.C. Official Code 
§§ 42-2131 et seq.).
HUD – the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Inclusionary Development – a development subject to the provisions of the 
Housing
14 DCMR § 2299
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
Inclusionary Zoning Program.
Inclusionary Development Covenant – the Inclusionary Development Covenant 
described in § Error: Reference source not found.
Inclusionary Development Owner – a person, firm, partnership, association, 
joint venture, corporation, other entity, or government with a property 
interest in land or improvements that is or will be occupied by an 
Inclusionary Development, but excluding Inclusionary Unit Owners.
Inclusionary Unit – a dwelling unit set aside for sale or rental as required by the 
Inclusionary Zoning Program.
Inclusionary Unit Owner – a Household member or members that own(s) a For 
Sale Inclusionary Unit.
Inclusionary Zoning Act – the Inclusionary Zoning Implementation Amendment 
Act of 2006, effective March 14, 2007 (D.C. Law 16-275; D.C. Official 
Code §§ 6-1041.01 et seq.). 
Inclusionary  Zoning  Program  – all  of  the  provisions  of  the  Zoning 
Commission’s Inclusionary Zoning Regulations, the Inclusionary Zoning 
Act, and this Chapter, including policies adopted by DHCD pursuant 
thereto.
Ineligible  Costs  – normal  maintenance,  general  repair  work,  personal  or 
decorative  items  or  work,  cosmetic  enhancements,  installations  with 
limited useful life spans, and non-permanent fixtures not eligible for 
capital improvement credit as determined by DHCD.  Such costs generally 
include: (i) cosmetic enhancements such as fireplace tiles and mantels, 
decorative wall coverings or hangings, window treatments (for example, 
blinds, shutters, and curtains), installed mirrors, shelving, and refinishing 
of existing surfaces; (ii) non-permanent fixtures, such as track lighting, 
door  knobs,  handles  and  locks,  and  portable  appliances;  and  (iii) 
installations with limited useful life spans, such as carpet, painting of 
existing surfaces, and light bulbs.
Insurance – hazard insurance for single family For Sale Inclusionary Units and 
mortgage insurance for any For Sale Inclusionary Unit.
Lives in the District of Columbia - the situation where  a person maintains a 
place of abode in the District as his or her actual, regular, and principal 
place of residence, as reasonably determined by DHCD or its designee. 
Market Rate Unit – a unit in an Inclusionary Development that is not an 
Inclusionary Unit.
Housing
14 DCMR § 2299
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
Maximum Resale Price – the Maximum Resale Price described in § 2219.
Median Family Income, or MFI – the median family income for a household in 
the Washington Metropolitan Statistical Area as set forth in the periodic 
calculation provided by HUD, adjusted for household size without regard 
to any adjustments made by HUD for the purposes of the programs it 
administers.  Adjustments of Median Family Income for household size 
shall be made as prescribed in § 2(1) of the Housing Production Trust 
Fund Act, effective March 16, 1989 (D.C. Law 7-202; D.C. Official Code 
§ 42-2801(1)).
MFI Level – the percentage of MFI referred to in the Inclusionary Zoning Act 
and/or Zoning Regulations (11-C DCMR §§ 1000 et seq.), for example, 
50% MFI, 60% MFI or 80% MFI.
New Communities Initiative – a District program designed to revitalize severely 
distressed subsidized housing and redevelop neighborhoods into vibrant 
mixed-income communities. 
Notice of Availability  – the notice required to be provided to DHCD by an 
Owner in accordance with § Error: Reference source not found.
Owner –  both an Inclusionary Development Owner and an Inclusionary Unit 
Owner.
Parent - the natural or adoptive mother or father of a person. 
Rent and Price Schedule –  the rent and price schedule published in the  D.C. 
Register pursuant to § 103(b) of the Inclusionary Zoning Act.
Rental Inclusionary Development – the portion of an Inclusionary Development 
that includes, or will include, Inclusionary Units that will be leased to 
Households.
Rental Inclusionary Unit – an Inclusionary Unit that will be or has been leased 
to a Household.
Tenant –  a Household member or members that occupy a Rental Inclusionary 
Unit.
Utilities – water, sewer, electricity, natural gas, trash, and any other fees required 
by  the  Inclusionary  Development  Owner,  property  manager,  or 
condominium  or  homeowners’  association  in  order  to  occupy  the 
Inclusionary Unit, including but not limited to mandatory condominium, 
homeowners’ association, amenity or administrative fees.
Housing
14 DCMR § 2299
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
Works in District of Columbia - the situation where a person reports to work in 
the District, irrespective of any travel for work or telecommuting, as 
reasonably determined by DHCD or its designee.
SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 3907 (May 15, 2009); as amended by Final 
Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 9295, 9296 (December 11, 2009); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 
64 DCR 13582 (December 29, 2017). 
Housing
14 DCMR § 2299
