District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
3913 
CONCILIATION OF DISPUTES AND THE CONCILIATION 
SERVICE
3913.1
Either a housing provider or a tenant may initiate a request for conciliation of a 
dispute arising under the Act by the Rental Accommodations Division 
Conciliation Service established by § 503 of the Act (D.C. Official Code § 42-
3505.03).  Nothing herein shall prevent the Rent Administrator from initiating a 
conciliation proceeding with the approval of the parties.
3913.2
A request for conciliation of a dispute shall be filed on a form published by the 
Rent Administrator and shall include a completed request packet in accordance 
with the requirements of the published form.
3913.3
The Conciliation Service shall do the following: 
(a)
Utilize knowledge of the Act, this subtitle, and, if applicable, an 
Apartment Improvement Program building improvement plan, and other 
specific information about the circumstances of the dispute to assist the 
parties in arriving at a mutually acceptable explanation of the dispute and 
to assist the parties in developing a mutually acceptable settlement or 
resolution of the dispute;
(b)
Advise both the housing provider and the tenant of their rights and 
obligations under the Act, this subtitle, and other applicable D.C. laws; 
and
(c)
Advise both the housing provider and the tenant of circumstances 
surrounding the dispute that constitute violations of the Act, this subtitle, 
and other D.C. laws.
3913.4
Neither party to a dispute brought before the Conciliation Service shall be 
compelled to attend a session or participate in any proceeding of the Conciliation 
Service.
3913.5
The results of an attempt to conciliate a dispute shall not be binding upon either 
party, except where an agreement is developed voluntarily as a result of the 
conciliation.
3913.6
Agreements reached during conciliation shall not prevent the Rent Administrator 
from enforcing the provisions of the Act or this subtitle.
3913.7
The proceedings of the Conciliation Service shall be informal, voluntary, and 
non-adversarial.  No evidentiary record for a pending petition shall be established 
by any filings, statements, or proceedings before the Conciliation Service.
Housing
14 DCMR § 3913
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
3913.8
Admissions of responsibility by either party or other stipulations required as an 
essential condition for making an agreement shall not be admissible in any 
adjudicatory proceedings under the Act, this subtitle, or any other administrative 
or judicial proceedings under provisions of District law.
3913.9
Each tenant petition may be reviewed by the Conciliation Service to determine if 
it involves issues that could be resolved through conciliation.
3913.10
If issues that may be resolved through conciliation are presented in a tenant 
petition, the Conciliation Service shall discuss with the tenant the conciliation of 
the matters raised in the tenant petition.  If the tenant agrees, the Conciliation 
Service shall contact the housing provider.
3913.11
If a tenant and housing provider agree to conciliation, the Rent Administrator 
shall delay the transmittal of the case to the Office of Administrative Hearings or, 
if the case has already been transmitted, notify the presiding Administrative Law 
Judge that a stay or continuance of proceedings may be advisable. 
3913.12
If conciliation fails, upon mutual consent of the parties, the housing provider and 
the tenant may submit any dispute for arbitration, in accordance with § 3914.
SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 1336, 1358-59 (March 7, 1986); as amended by Final 
Rulemaking published at 68 DCR 012634 (December 3, 2021).
Housing
14 DCMR § 3913
