9210
ELIGIBLE TYPES AND TERMS OF FINANCING
9210.1
Family Responsibility. The household is responsible for securing their own mortgage loan 
financing from a Participating Lender.
9210.2
Permitted Types of Loans: The following types of loans are acceptable:
(a)
Primary fixed rate mortgage loans that are:
(1)
Insured by the FHA;
(2)
Guaranteed by VA or other governmental entity;
(3)
Insured with private mortgage insurance, if: (i) The terms comply with 
secondary mortgage market underwriting of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, or 
the Federal Home Loan Bank; or
(4)
Obtained through any other local or federal governmental lending 
program.
(b)
Subordinated mortgage loans, using
(1)
Local Community Development Block Grant funds; or
(2)
Other subsidized subordinate funding available in conjunction with the 
HCV/HOAP.
9210.3
Prohibited Loans. The following types of financing are considered high risk and are not approved 
for use:
(a)
Balloon payments;
(b)
Adjustable rate mortgages;
(c)
Loans to persons in addition to those listed in the household's HCV/HOAP 
application;
(d)
Owner financing except as may be approved on a case by case basis; and
(e)
Any other type of loan that may come to the attention of HCV/HOAP that 
demonstrates a high-risk factor, as may be determined on a case by case basis.
9210.4
Minimum Down Payment. The minimum down payment requirements are:
(a)
The Family shall contribute a minimum of three (3%) percent of the purchase price of 
the home as a down payment.
(b)
The source of the down payment (3%) funds can include, but is not limited to, the 
following:
(1)
Gifts from family members or friends;
(2)
Loans from family members or friends;
(3)
Loans from any governmental program secured by a subordinate lien.
9210.5
Delinquency Notification by Lenders. Participating lenders shall agree to notify HCV/HOAP of 
any mortgage payment delinquency, in order to initiate prompt intervention and to avoid serious 
mortgage delinquency/default.
SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 5767 (June 21, 2002); as amended 
by Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 6180 (July 1, 2005).
