District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
5799
DEFINITIONS
5799.1
When used in this subtitle, the following terms and phrases shall have the 
meaning ascribed:
Adjusted Income - is annual income less the following amounts:
(a)
Four hundred eighty dollars ($ 480) for each dependent;
(b)
Four hundred dollars ($ 400) for any elderly family;
(c)
For any family that is not an elderly family but has a handicapped 
member other than the head of household or spouse, handicapped 
assistance expenses in excess of three percent (3%) of annual 
income,  but  this  allowance  shall  not  exceed  the  employment 
income received by family members who are eighteen (18) years 
of age or older as a result of the assistance to the handicapped or 
disabled person;
(d)
For any elderly family, one of the following:
(1)
That has no handicapped assistance expenses, an allowance 
for medical expenses equal to the amount by which the 
medical  expenses  exceed  three  percent  (3%)  of  annual 
income;
(2)
That has handicapped assistance expenses greater than or 
equal to three percent (3%) of annual income, an allowance 
for  handicapped  assistance  expenses  computed  in 
accordance with paragraph (c) of this definition, plus an 
allowance for medical expenses that is equal to the family's 
medical expenses; or
(3)
That has handicapped assistance expenses that are less than 
three percent (3%) of annual income, an allowance for 
combined  handicapped  assistance  expenses  and  medical 
expenses that is equal to the amount by which the sum of 
these  expenses  exceeds  three  percent  (3%)  of  annual 
income; and
(4)
Child care expense.
Annual Contributions Contract (ACC) - The written grant agreement between 
HUD and a PHA under which HUD agrees to provide funding for a 
program (e.g., public housing or Housing Choice Vouchers (HCV)) under 
Housing
14 DCMR § 5799
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
the Act, and the PHA agrees to comply with HUD requirements for the 
program. 
Annual Income - For purposes of determining annual income for families who 
are applicants and participants in the  RAD Covered Project, DCHA shall 
follow HUD requirements as enumerated in 24 CFR § 5.609, as amended.
Applicant/Applicant Family - a person or a family that has applied for housing 
assistance as a familial unit.
Contract Administrator -  HUD or DCHA (under an Annual Contributions 
Contract with HUD) that executes a HAP Contract with a Project Owner. 
Contract Rent -  The total amount of rent specified in the HAP Contract as 
payable to the Project Owner for a unit occupied by an eligible family. In 
PBV, the contract rent is referred to as “Rent to Owner.”
Days - calendar days, unless otherwise specified (where a specified number of 
days ends on a weekend or a holiday, the prescribed period shall end on 
the next working day following the weekend or holiday).
DCHA - the District of Columbia Housing Authority.
Dependent - a member of the family household (excluding foster children) other 
than the family head of household or spouse who is under eighteen (18) 
years of age or is a disabled person or handicapped person, or is a full time 
student.
Disability – Disability will be defined according to 42 USC § 12102.
Displaced Person- a person(s) displaced by governmental action, or a person 
whose dwelling has been extensively damaged or destroyed as a result of 
disaster declared or otherwise formally recognized pursuant to Federal 
disaster relief laws.
Dwelling Lease - a written agreement between a tenant and owner of the RAD 
Covered project for the use and occupancy of a specific dwelling unit.
Elderly Family - a family whose head or spouse, or whose sole member, is at 
least sixty-two (62) years of age, or a person with a disability, and may 
include two (2) or more elderly persons or persons with disabilities or 
living  together,  or  one  (1)  or  more  elderly  persons  or  persons  with 
disabilities living together, or one (1) or more persons living with another 
person who is determined to be essential to his or her care or wellbeing.
Emergency Category- Applicants in this category are those who are:
Housing
14 DCMR § 5799
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
(a)
Involuntarily  displaced  and  not  living  in  standard,  permanent 
replacement housing (including applicants that are homeless (no 
fixed address), living in transitional housing, or living in a licensed 
shelter for the homeless); or the applicant will be involuntarily 
displaced within no more than six months from the date of any 
preference status certification by the family or verification of the 
family's status (An applicant may not qualify for this preference if 
he/she: (1) refused to comply with applicable polices for locally or 
federally  assisted  housing  program(s),  including  notice  of  a 
mandatory transfer issued by DCHA or failure to comply with 
procedures with respect to the occupancy of under occupied or 
overcrowded public housing units; or (2) failed to accept a transfer 
to another housing unit in accordance with a court decree or HUD-
approved desegregation plan; or (3) was displaced as a result of a 
DCHA initiated eviction; or (4) voluntarily left public housing in 
an effort to avoid the public or assisted housing waiting lists by 
claiming he/she is now in an emergency category status.);
(b)
Living  in  substandard  housing  as  determined  by  a  certified 
inspector pursuant to the building and/or housing codes of the 
District of Columbia (or other applicable jurisdiction), at the time 
of preference verification;
(c)
Paying more than fifty percent (50%) of income for rent for at least 
ninety  (90)  days  at  the  time  of  the  preference  verification. 
(Applicant family may not qualify for this preference if it is paying 
more than fifty percent (50%) of income for rent because the 
applicant's housing assistance was terminated as a result of the 
applicant family's failure to comply with local or federal housing 
program policies and procedures or if the applicant is paying more 
than 50% as a result of a DCHA initiated eviction);
(d)
Involuntarily  displaced  as  a  victim  of  recent  or  continuing 
domestic  violence,  i.e.,  actual  or  threatened  physical  violence 
directed against one or more members of the applicant family by a 
spouse or other member of the applicant's household;
(e)
Involuntarily displaced by recent or continuing hate crimes,  i.e., 
actual  or  threatened  physical  violence  or  intimidation  that  is 
directed against a person or his/her property and that is based on 
Housing
14 DCMR § 5799
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
the person's race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability, 
sexual orientation, or familial status; or
(f)
Involuntarily displaced as a result of inaccessibility of a housing 
unit  or  a  member  of  applicant  family  has  mobility  or  other 
impairment that makes the member unable to use critical elements 
of the unit.
Family - the following person or persons:
(a)
Two (2) or more persons who are either related by blood, marriage 
or operation of law, or give evidence of a stable relationship which 
has existed over a period of time;
(b)
An elderly family as defined in this chapter (including disabled or 
handicapped persons);
(c)
A single person who is a displaced person as defined in this 
chapter.
(d)
The remaining member(s) of a HMA tenant family; or
(e)
A single person who is not an elderly family or a displaced person 
as defined in this chapter, where approved by HUD pursuant to 24 
CFR, Part 912.3.
The term "Family" does not include a non-immigrant student alien (and 
related family members) as defined by HUD pursuant to § 101(a)(15)(F)(i) 
of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 USC § 1101(a)(15)(i).
Fair Market Rent (FMR) -  The cost in a particular housing market area of 
privately owned, decent, safe and sanitary rental housing. HUD establishes 
and publishes in the Federal Register FMRs for dwelling units of varying 
sizes for each metropolitan area. FMRs are gross rent estimates, i.e., they 
include the cost of tenant-paid utilities. See 24 CFR part 888 subpart A.
First Available Unit - An Applicant with an application date earlier than an 
Applicant on a Site-Based Waiting List at a development with an available 
unit shall be selected from the waiting list for a unit at that property. For 
example, an eligible Applicant with an application date of March 1, 2008 
who has selected the "First Available Unit Option" shall be selected from 
the waiting list before any eligible Applicant on the Site-Based Waiting 
List with an application date and time after March 1, 2008. (This assumes 
that the selection is for the appropriate bedroom size and any other 
relevant unit features).
Housing
14 DCMR § 5799
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
Full Time Student- a person who is carrying a subject load that is considered full 
time for day students under the standards and practices of the educational 
institution  attended.  An  educational  institution  includes  a  vocational 
school with a diploma or certificate program, as well as an institution 
offering a college degree.
Assistance Expenses for Participants with Disabilities- reasonable expenses 
that  are  anticipated,  during  the  period  for  which  annual  income  is 
computed, for attendant care and auxiliary apparatus for a family member 
with  a  disability  and  that  are  necessary  to  enable  a  family  member 
(including the family member with a disability) to be employed; provided, 
that  the  expenses  are  neither  paid  to  a  member  of  the  family  nor 
reimbursed by an outside source.
Head of Household- the family member who is held responsible and accountable 
for  the  family  (and  whose  name  is  identified  as  responsible  on  the 
dwelling lease).
Housing Assistance Payment (HAP) -  The payment made by the Contract 
Administrator to the Project Owner of an assisted unit as provided in the 
HAP Contract. Where the unit is leased to an eligible household, the 
payment  is  the  difference  between  the  contract  rent  for  a  particular 
assisted unit and the tenant rent payable by the family. 
Housing Choice Voucher Program (HCVP) – a program that provides tenant-
based rental assistance pursuant to Section 8 of the Housing Act of 1937.
Housing Quality Standards (HQS) - Standards set forth in 24 CFR § 982.401 
that must be met by all units in the HCV program before assistance can be 
paid on behalf of a household. The HQS in 24 CFR § 982.401 apply to 
Project-Based Voucher units, in accordance with 24 CFR § 983.101. 
Generally, Voucher Agencies must conduct HQS inspections of PBV 
projects not less than biennially during the term of the HAP Contract. 
HAP Contract - The contract entered into by the Project Owner and the contract 
administrator that sets forth the rights and duties of the parties with respect 
to the Covered Project and the payments under the contract. 
HUD - the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Leased  Premises -  Leased  Premises  includes  the  Lessee's  dwelling  unit  as 
specified in the lease and any other buildings or areas that are provided for 
the exclusive use of the Lessee.
Housing
14 DCMR § 5799
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
Lessee - The "Lessee" is the individual(s) that sign(s) the Lease with the owner of 
the  RAD  Covered  project.  Each  Lessee  is  individually,  jointly  and 
severally responsible for performance of all obligations under the lease 
including, but not limited to, the payment of rent and other charges, as 
defined herein. No individual, other than the signatory to the lease, is 
deemed to be a Lessee or have any rights of a Lessee. 
Low Rent Housing - housing owned by DCHA under the United States Housing 
Act of 1937.
Lower Income Family- a family whose annual income does not exceed eighty 
percent (80%) of the median income for the area, as determined by HUD, 
with adjustments for smaller and larger families.
Medical  Expenses -  those  medical  expenses,  including  medical  insurance 
premiums, that are anticipated during the twelve (12) month period for 
which annual income is computed, and that are not covered by insurance.
Mixed Finance Project – A project developed under 24 CFR § 905.604.
Net Family Assets- the value of equity in real property, savings, stocks, bonds 
and other forms of capital investments, excluding equity accounts in HUD 
homeownership  programs.  The  value  of  necessary  items  of  personal 
property such as furniture and automobiles shall be excluded. (In cases 
where a trust fund has been established and the trust is not revocable by, 
or under the control of any member of the family or household, the value 
of the trust fund will not be considered an asset so long as the fund 
continues to be held in trust. Any income distributed from the trust fund 
shall be counted as part of annual income.) In determining net family 
assets, HMA shall include the value of any assets disposed of by an 
applicant or tenant for less than fair market value (including a disposition 
in trust, but not in a foreclosure or bankruptcy sale) during the two (2) 
years preceding the date of application for admission or reexamination, as 
applicable, in excess of the consideration received therefore. In the case a 
disposition as part of a separation or divorce settlement, the disposition 
shall not be considered to be for less than fair market value if the applicant 
or tenant receives important consideration not measurable in dollar terms.
Notice to Correct or Vacate –  a written 30-day notice of termination of the 
tenancy that advises the Tenant that he/she is in violation of the Lease or 
DC Housing Code, specifies the violation(s) that form the basis of the 
notice, and specifies how the Tenant can cure the violations within the 
time period set forth in the notice.
Housing
14 DCMR § 5799
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
Notice to Vacate – a written 30-day notice of termination of the tenancy that 
specifies the basis for termination of the tenancy, and specifies the time 
period by which the Tenant must vacate the premises.
 
Participant (participant family) - A family that has been admitted to a DCHA 
program and is currently assisted in the program. 
Person with a Disability- a person with a disability as defined by this section.
Prepayment - The satisfaction (i.e., payment in full) of the underlying mortgage 
prior to its maturity date. Prepayment is one of the eligibility triggering 
events for RAD conversion under Section III of this Notice.
Private Mixed Finance Project – A Mixed Finance Project whose owner is not 
substantially  controlled  by  DCHA  or  a  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of 
DCHA.   For  the  purposes  of  this  definition,  “substantial  control”  is 
defined as greater than fifty percent (50%) voting power.
Priority Applicant- an applicant for admission to housing who meets the criteria 
of § 6105 of this title.
Project -  For purposes of determining a RAD transaction, a “project” is a 
structure  or  group  of  structures  that  in  HUD’s  determination  are 
appropriately  managed  as  a  single  asset.  In  determining  whether  a 
combination of structures constitute a project, HUD will take into account 
types of buildings, occupancy, location, market influences, management 
organization, financing structure or other factors as appropriate. For a 
RAD PBV conversion, the definition of “project” in 24 CFR § 983.3 
continues to apply for all references to the term in 24 CFR § 983.
Project-Based Voucher (PBV) - A component of a PHA’s HCV program, where 
the PHA attaches voucher assistance to specific housing units through a 
PBV HAP Contract with an owner. Unlike a tenant-based voucher, the 
PBV assistance remains attached to the unit when the family moves, and 
assists the next eligible family to move into the PBV unit. The PBV 
program is administered by HUD’s Office of Public and Indian Housing.
Project Owner - For purposes of Sections 5700 through 5775, the term Project 
Owner refers to the owner of the Covered Project, including but not 
limited to any owner pursuant to a HAP Contract. For purposes of HAP 
Contracts, an Owner is a private person, partnership, or entity (including a 
cooperative), a non-profit entity, a PHA or other public entity, having the 
legal right to lease or sublease the dwelling units subject to the HAP 
Contract.  
Public Housing - see Low Rent Housing.
Housing
14 DCMR § 5799
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
Public  Housing  Advisory  Board  (Resident  Advisory  Board) -  District  of 
Columbia Public Housing Advisory Board, established by Mayor's Order 
86-1.
Public  Housing  Agency  (PHA)  any  HUD-approved  entity  that administers 
programs under the Housing Act of 1937, which could include public 
housing and HCVs. In addition to this general definition, the term PHA, as 
used in this Notice, refers to the owner of a First Component Converting 
Project (even if the project is a Mixed Finance Project and the PHA does 
not own ACC units). 
Public Housing Project -  Per 24 CFR § 905.108 the term ‘‘public housing’’ 
means  low-income  housing,  and  all  necessary  appurtenances  thereto, 
assisted under the Act, other than assistance under 42 USC § 1437f of the 
Act (Section 8). The term ‘‘public housing’’ includes dwelling units in a 
Mixed Finance Project that are assisted by a PHA with public housing 
Capital Fund assistance or Operating Fund assistance. When used in 
reference to public housing, the term ‘‘project’’ means housing developed, 
acquired, or assisted by a PHA under the Act, and the improvement of any 
such housing. Each public housing project has a project identification 
number  in  the  Public  and  Indian  Housing  Information  Center  (PIC), 
though a PHA may propose to convert individual sites within the public 
housing project.
RAD Covered Project - The post-conversion property, including but not limited 
to buildings, the common areas of the buildings and grounds associated 
with all the buildings, with assistance converted from one form of rental 
assistance to another under the Rental Assistance Demonstration.
Resident - a lessee under the dwelling lease.
Site-Based Waiting Lists - An Applicant who has applied to be placed on the 
Site-Based Waiting List at multiple developments will be selected from 
those respective lists by date and time of application. (This assumes that 
the selection is for the appropriate bedroom size and any other relevant 
unit features).
Tenant - a lessee under the dwelling lease.
Tenant Rent - the amount payable monthly by a tenant as rent to the owner of the 
RAD converted project under a dwelling lease as defined in 24 CFR part 
5. Where all utilities and other essential housing services are supplied the 
tenant  by  the  owner,  Tenant  Rent  shall  be  the  same  as  total  tenant 
payment. Where some or all utilities and other essential housing services 
are not supplied to the tenant by the owner, and the cost is billed directly 
Housing
14 DCMR § 5799
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
to the tenant, Tenant Rent shall be the amount of the total tenant payment 
less applicable utility allowances. Tenant rent shall be reduced by any 
amount paid that month by a household member into an Achieving Your 
Best Life (AYBL) escrow account, until the AYBL contract terminates. 
See 14 DCMR § 5775.
TTP - The total tenant payment as calculated pursuant to 24 CFR part 5.
Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards (UFAS) - Construction standards with 
minimum requirements for accessibility for dwelling units constructed or 
substantially altered with the assistance of federal funds as detailed at 24 
CFR part 8 and the addendums thereto.
Utility Allowance -  As defined in 24 CFR part 5,  the amount that a PHA or 
Project Owner determines is reasonable for tenant-paid utility costs. In the 
case where the utility allowance exceeds the Total Tenant Payment (as 
defined at 24 CFR § 5.613), the tenant is reimbursed in the amount of such 
excess. 
SOURCE:  Final Rulemaking at 64 DCR 12956 (December 22, 2017); as amended by Final Rulemaking published 
at 66 DCR 6831 (June 7, 2019). 
Housing
14 DCMR § 5799
