District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
6126 
PET OWNERSHIP IN PUBLIC HOUSING
6126.1 
Pets Generally Prohibited. Except as provided in § 6126.2 and § 6126.3, pets are 
generally prohibited at DCHA properties. This policy does not apply to Service or 
Assistance  Animals  that  reside  in  public  housing  units  as  a  reasonable 
accommodation under 14 DCMR § 7409.  
6126.2
Prior Pet Ownership. Residents who own a pet at any DCHA property prior to 
May 1, 2005 may continue to own a pet that is otherwise not prohibited under § 
6126.3, provided the resident complies with the requirements of § 6126.3(a), (b), 
and (c). Residents who currently own a pet as of February 8, 2017, at a senior 
and/or disabled-only property may continue to own the pet provided they are 
compliant with these regulations within ninety (90) days of implementation, 
excluding § 6126.3(a)(5).
6126.3
Elderly-only  and  Disabled  Housing  Properties.  Residents  residing  at  these 
properties shall be permitted to own pets in accordance with the following 
provisions:
(a)
Animal Limitations.
(1) 
Only domesticated animals that are commonly kept as household 
pets, such as a dogs, cats, birds, rodents, fish, or turtles, are 
permitted. The term “common household pet” shall not include 
reptiles, other than turtles.
(2)  
A resident is permitted to own a maximum of two (2) pets. A 
reasonable number of fish or other animals appropriately kept in an 
aquarium or cage shall be considered one (1) pet. The two (2) pet 
maximum does not include Service or Assistance Animals that 
reside in the unit.
(3)  
Aquariums  that  do  not  exceed  twenty  (20)  gallons  will  be 
permitted if properly registered. 
(4) 
Residents with more than one (1) registered aquarium must keep 
the aquariums in separate rooms.
(5)  
Residents may not own a dog that is expected to exceed forty (40) 
pounds  and  twenty  (20)  inches  in  height  at  maturity.  Dogs 
expected to exceed this weight and height at maturity are only 
permitted if they are:
(i) 
Approved as a Service or Assistance Animal in accordance 
with  Chapter  74  of  this  title  as  a  reasonable 
accommodation; or
Housing
14 DCMR § 6126
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
(ii) 
Otherwise are eligible under the prior ownership provisions 
of § 6126.2.
(b) 
Registration Requirements.  Residents must comply with and meet the 
following requirements to qualify for pet ownership:
(1) 
Maintain good standing with their lease;
(2) 
Register the animal or the contents of an aquarium or cage with the 
property manager;
(3) 
Provide updated registration for the animal annually;
(4) 
Provide proof that the animal has been inoculated in accordance 
with applicable local laws;
(5) 
Provide proof that an animal older than six (6) months has been 
spayed or neutered unless the resident provides certification from a 
licensed veterinarian that such procedure would jeopardize the 
medical well-being of the pet; 
(6)
Pay  a  refundable  pet  ownership  fee  in  monthly  installments, 
limited to cats and dogs, as reflected in the DCHA Schedule of 
Maintenance Charges; and
(7) 
Execute and abide by the Pet Policy lease addendum providing for 
the proper care and maintenance of the animal and the unit in 
accordance with DCHA rules and policies.  Failure to abide by the 
Pet Policy will be considered a violation of the lease.
(c)  
Ownership Responsibilities. Residents approved for pet ownership must 
abide by the following conditions, as well as DCHA’s Pet Policy:
(1) 
The resident shall be responsible for paying for services related to 
any pet-related rodent and/or insect infestation, as well as any pet-
related property damage, in their unit. The resident shall keep the 
apartment in a sanitary condition at all times and is responsible for 
keeping the surrounding areas free of pet odors, waste, and litter.
(2)
The resident shall store all pet food in sealed containers. 
(3)
The resident shall be responsible for ensuring the rights of other 
residents to peace and quiet enjoyment, health, and/or safety are 
not infringed upon or diminished by a pet’s noise, odors, waste or 
other nuisance.
Housing
14 DCMR § 6126
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
 
(4)
The resident shall continuously provide the proper maintenance 
and care for the pet.
SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 64 DCR 1747 (February 17, 2017).
Housing
14 DCMR § 6126
