7199
DEFINITIONS
7199.1
When used in this chapter, the following terms and phrases shall have the meanings ascribed:
Authority - The District of Columbia Housing Authority.
Confidential Employee - An employee who is privy to information leading to decisions of 
Authority management affecting Employer-Employee relations.
Day – A calendar day unless otherwise specified.
Department Director - A  managerial employee having significant responsibilities for 
formulating and administering Authority  or departmental policies and  programs for each 
organizational component of the Authority.
Employee Assistance Program (EAP) - An employee benefit service that is designed to 
identify,  motivate  and  refer,  at  an  early  stage,  those  employees  who  develop 
personal/medical  problems that contribute to unacceptable job performance or behavioral 
problems.
Employer-Employee Relations - The relationship between the Authority and its employees 
and recognized employee organizations or, when used in a general sense, the relationship 
between management and employees or employee organizations.
Grievance  - Any  dispute  by  an  aggrieved  party alleging  the  misrepresentation  or 
misapplication of a provision of the Collective Bargaining Agreement or a provision of the 
written DCHA Personnel Policy or Procedures.
Managerial Position - A position whose duties and responsibilities require or authorize the 
individual to formulate, determine or influence the policies in the area of responsibility.
Probationary Period - The one (1) year period following initial appointment to a position 
within  the  Authority;  or  the  one (1)  year  or  extended  period  following  competitive 
promotion to a supervisory or managerial position.
Qualified Candidates - Those applicants who meet established qualification requirements 
for the position, including selective placement factors.
Reduction in Grade - An involuntary personnel action which changes an employee, while 
continuously employed, to a grade level with a lower salary.
Removal - The involuntary separation of an  employee for cause as specified in these 
policies.
Selection Certificate - A list of eligible  candidates  from a register for appointment to a 
position.
Supervisory Position - A position having authority over an organizational component with 
responsibility for supervising the work and assigned staff.
Suspension - The placing of an employee in a temporary non-duty, non-pay status for cause.
SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 42 DCR 6914, 6941-6942 (December 8, 
1995). 
