5212
REQUEST FOR TENANCY APPROVAL
5212.1
The owner and the Family shall submit the following documents to DCHA:
(a)
Completed RTA – HUD Form-52517; 
(b)
Copy of the proposed lease, including the HUD-prescribed Tenancy 
Addendum;
(c)
Ownership (recorded deed);
(d)
If a management agent is involved, a management agreement;
(e)
A lease that will be used for the lease-up;
(f)
If the Family is moving from one assisted unit to another and was 
responsible for a water bill, a recent copy (within last 30 days) of the 
water bill provided showing a balance of fifty dollars ($50) or less;
(g)
Executed Lead-Based Paint notice;
(h)
HUD Authorization for Release of Information/Privacy Act Statement(s) 
(executed by all adult household members);
(i)
Completed W-9 Forms; and 
(j)
The address for the Owner(s) current home or place of business.  Post 
Office Box addresses are not acceptable.
5212.2
After the documents listed in § 5212.1 have been submitted, DCHA shall verify 
the following:
(a)
All required signatures are executed on the RTA;
(b)
The Family’s Voucher has not expired;
(c)
The Family is in good standing to move with continued assistance; and
(d)
The owner has requested a rent DCHA will approve.
5212.3
The owner may submit the RTA on behalf of the Family.
5212.4
The completed RTA shall be submitted as hard copies, in-person, or electronically 
to an authorized DCHA email address.  DCHA shall provide a written receipt at 
that time.
5212.5
The Family may not submit, and DCHA shall not process, more than one (1) RTA 
at a time.
5212.6
When the Family submits the RTA, DCHA shall review the RTA for 
completeness. If the RTA is incomplete or missing signatures by the Family or 
owner, DCHA shall notify the Family and the owner of such deficiencies and 
provide assistance in completing, if necessary, as a reasonable accommodation.
5212.7
Missing information or missing documents shall only be accepted as hard copies, 
in-person, by mail, by fax, or electronically to an authorized DCHA email 
address.
5212.8
Because of the time sensitive nature of the tenancy approval process, DCHA shall 
attempt to communicate with the owner and Family by phone, fax, or email. 
DCHA shall use mail when the parties cannot be reached by phone, fax, or email.
5212.9
Once the RTA and proposed lease are approved, DCHA shall schedule an HQS 
inspection.
5212.10
After DCHA accepts an RTA, the time period of the Voucher shall be suspended 
if any of the following circumstances apply:
(a)
The Family is waiting for notification from DCHA that the lease is 
approved;
(b)
The Family is waiting for DCHA to make a reasonable accommodation 
decision;
(c)
Additional time is needed for the Family to locate suitable housing as a 
reasonable accommodation; or
(d)
Prior to DCHA rejecting the unit for lease-up, the Family makes a 
reasonable accommodation request applicable to approval of such unit. 
5212.11
If the unit is not approved, the expiration period of the Voucher shall resume on 
the date that DCHA notifies the Family to pick up the Voucher.
SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 7875, 7883 (June 29, 2012).
