District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
9114
INTERIM RECERTIFICATIONS
9114.1
Interim  recertifications  in  the  Rent  Reform  Demonstration  are  limited  in 
frequency and scope.
9114.2
Families  are  not  required  to  report  increases  in  income  between  triennial 
recertifications.  
9114.3
Family’s may request and receive an interim reduction in rent when their family 
income decreases subject to the following conditions:
(a)
Households may request an interim re-certification of their income.  An 
interim shall be conducted only when a household has a reduction in 
income of more than 10% from the retrospective income used to calculate 
their TTP.
(b)
DCHA shall re-calculate the household TTP based on a new retrospective 
income to determine the greater of 28% of gross income or the minimum 
rent of $75.  This new TTP shall remain in effect until the next triennial 
certification unless an interim recertification is required or the family 
receives a lower TTP as part of a hardship waiver.
(c)
The household may request and receive one interim recertification per 
year, unless an additional interim recertification is granted as part of a 
hardship waiver.  
9114.4
Households are required to report changes in household composition within thirty 
(30) calendar days of the change in household composition. 
9114.5
Households seeking to move to a new unit shall not be required to complete an 
interim review of income and have TTP recalculated, unless the move is the result 
of a change in household composition and voucher size (as described above), or 
when the tenant requests an interim due to a decrease in income.  The family rent 
to owner shall be calculated using the family’s most recent interim or scheduled 
recertification  TTP,  together  with  the  utility  allowance  and  contract  rent 
applicable to the new dwelling unit.
9114.6
When the utility allowance schedule is updated to reflect rate changes, utility 
allowances and utility allowance payments (UAPs) shall be adjusted only when 
HAP subsidies or TTPs are recalculated for other reasons. More specifically, 
updated utility schedules shall be applied when households:
(a)
Experience a change in unit rent; or
(b)
Recertify and the TTP is recalculated during interim or triennial; or
Housing
14 DCMR § 9114
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
(c)
Move to a new units, or
(d)
Change the household composition and qualify for a different voucher 
size.   
9114.7
DCHA shall conduct a third party verification every ninety days for those families 
who report zero income and initiate an interim recertification.
SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 61 DCR 9596 (September 19, 2014); as amended by Final Rulemaking 
published at 61 DCR 12037 (November 21, 2014).
Housing
14 DCMR § 9114
