District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
5311
APPLYING UTILITY ALLOWANCES
5311.1 
PROGRAM DESCRIPTION
The purpose of the simplified calculation of utility allowances for Housing 
Choice Voucher participants is to enable program participants, landlords, and 
PHA to be able to easily calculate a participant utility allowance utilizing one 
utility schedule. The new utility allowance is based on the lower of the bedroom 
size or voucher size, source of heating, electricity, and whether the participant is 
responsible for paying water and sewer usage. The utility consumption rates for 
the District of Columbia shall be reviewed annually and if there is a change of ten 
percent (10%) or more the simplified utility allowance schedule shall be adjusted 
accordingly.
5311.2 
The utility allowance is calculated for each Family based upon DCHA's utility 
allowance schedule. The schedule is based on the average utility costs in the 
District of Columbia. The utility allowance schedule set by DCHA applies to all 
assisted program types.
5311.3 
A DCHA established utility allowance schedule is used in determining Family 
Share and HAP. DCHA shall use the appropriate utility allowance as calculated 
by Section 5332.
5311.4 
DCHA, under its MTW Authority, established its “Simplified Utility Allowance 
Schedule”. The following provisions shall apply to calculating utility allowances:
(a) 
DCHA shall use a simplified schedule to calculate utility allowances at the 
time  of  a  Family's  initial  lease-up,  periodic  recertification,  interim 
recertification, or when a family transfers to another unit pursuant to § 
5333 -- Family Moves;
(b) 
The utility allowance calculation for all participants shall be determined 
using one structure type selected by DCHA annually;
(c) 
Generally, DCHA shall determine the structure type to by using the most 
commonly rented structure type based on the previous fiscal year;
(d) 
At its discretion, DCHA may select a structure type larger or smaller than 
the most commonly rented structure type if it determines that selecting the 
most common structure type may cause a disproportionate number of 
hardships or disproportionate number of excessive allowances to Families;
(e) 
Based on the structure type chosen, DCHA shall provide to all Families a 
flat allowance for tenant-paid gas and electric, an additional flat allowance 
if the unit is all electric, and an additional flat allowance if the participant 
is also responsible for water and sewer.
Housing
14 DCMR § 5311
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
5311.5 
DCHA shall approve a utility allowance amount higher than shown on DCHA's 
schedule if a higher allowance is needed as a reasonable accommodation for a 
Family  member  with  a  disability,  in  accordance  with  DCHA's  procedures 
regarding reasonable accommodation.
5311.6 
In the event of an interim recertification, DCHA shall use the utility allowance 
schedule in effect at the time of the family's last periodic recertification. Revised 
utility allowances shall be applied to a Family's rent and subsidy calculations at 
the first periodic recertification that is effective after the allowance is adopted.
SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 7890, 7895 (June 29, 2012); as amended by Final Rulemaking 
published at 61 DCR 1462 (February 21, 2014); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 63 DCR 13165 
(November 18, 2016).
Housing
14 DCMR § 5311
