8100
HOUSING QUALITY STANDARDS
8100.1
Housing Quality Standards (HQS) are the minimum quality standards set 
by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for 
the Housing Choice Voucher Program. The District of Columbia Housing 
Authority (DCHA) will enforce the more stringent of HQS or the District 
of Columbia regulations unless the enforcement of those requirements 
restricts the availability of suitable housing for rent subsidy families.
8100.2 
A unit must meet HQS both at the initial occupancy of the unit and 
throughout the term of the lease.  HQS applies to the building and 
premises, as well as the unit. A unit must meet HQS as follows:
(a)  
Newly leased units must pass an HQS inspection before the 
beginning date of the Housing Assistance Payments (HAP) 
Contract.
(b) 
After the initial inspection, a unit must be inspected once during 
each fiscal year of DCHA, which is October 1 through September 
30. 
8100.3
The following HQS deficiencies are considered the responsibility of the 
participant:
(a)
Participant-paid utilities not in service;
(b)
Failure to provide or maintain participant-supplied appliances; and
(c)
Damage to the unit or premises caused by a member of the 
participant's family or guest beyond normal wear and tear.
8100.4
Except for the HQS deficiencies listed in Subsection 8100.3, all other 
HQS deficiencies are the responsibility of the owner.
8100.5
DCHA must be permitted access to the unit for HQS inspections at 
reasonable times with reasonable notice, or minimal or even no notice if 
the HQS inspection is in connection with an emergency.
8100.6
DCHA will postpone abatement of payments to an owner under a HAP 
Contract, for up to ninety (90) Days, if the following conditions exist:
(a)
The unit failed the first HQS inspection due entirely or in part to 
owner's violations or DCHA was denied access to the unit;
(b)
The second HQS inspection was prevented due to action by the 
participant. For example, the participant installed or changed the 
locks without providing the owner with keys or the participant 
prevented the owner from making repairs which were the owner's 
responsibility, causing the unit to fail the second HQS inspection;
(c)
If, within fourteen (14) Days of the second HQS inspection, the 
owner makes a written request to DCHA for a postponement of the 
HAP abatement and provides written evidence of the owner's 
efforts to enforce their lease and obtain access to the unit. For 
example: initiation of a legal action or notice to the participant to 
cure the lease violation or vacate; and
(d)
The repairs at issue are not repairs found in the Code of Federal 
Regulations at 24 C.F.R. ยง 982.401, which must be corrected 
within twenty-four (24) hours.
8100.7
The postponement of the abatement payments will be triggered by receipt 
by DCHA of a written request as described in Subsection 8100.6(c).
(a)
Owner must make a diligent effort to gain access to the unit to 
effect any repairs and allow for a third HQS inspection;
(b)
Owner must notify DCHA when access can be obtained for the 
second HQS inspection and DCHA will inspect on a mutually 
agreed upon date at least fifteen (15) Days but not more than thirty 
(30) Days after receiving notice from the owner that the unit can be 
accessed;
(c)
If upon the third HQS inspection the unit fails HQS due to owner's 
failure to properly make repairs, then the abatement of payment 
under the HAP contract will be made retroactively as of the date of 
the first HQS inspection; and
(d)
If upon the third HQS inspection the unit passes, the owner's 
payment under the HAP Contract will be abated for the period 
beyond the ninety (90) Day postponement period up until the date 
of the passed third HQS inspection. There will be no abatement of 
payments under the HAP Contract if the successful third HQS 
inspection is within the ninety (90) day period.
SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 8483-85 (August 31, 2007); as 
amended by Final Rulemaking published at 57 DCR 9161 (October 1, 2010).
