9809 
TRANSFER 
9809.1 
The request to participate in an AYBL Reward Program will be 
considered as a tenant initiated transfer request if the family is deemed 
eligible and has accepted a unit at a Rewards Property.  The AYBL Family 
is responsible for relocation costs.
9809.2      
When DCHA is required to fill a vacancy at an AYBL Rewards Property, 
DCHA will notify the next AYBL Family from the AYBL Site-based 
Transfer Waiting Lists in writing. Eligible AYBL Families reaching the 
top  of  the  AYBL  Site-based  Transfer  Waiting  List  for  the  Rewards 
Property for which the AYBL applicant family applied will have thirty 
(30) days to move into the unit from the time the family is notified that 
they are eligible.   
9809.3  
The AYBL Family must execute the Contract of Participation within 
fourteen  (14)  calendar  days  of  written  notification  of  eligibility  to 
participate in AYBL.
9809.4
Prior to the execution of the Contract of Participation, if the AYBL 
Family’s  circumstances  change,  including  but  not  limited  to,  income 
and/or family composition, the AYBL Family is required to notify DCHA. 
9809.5
Once the Contract of Participation has been executed, and a unit has been 
offered, 
the AYBL Family must execute the Dwelling Lease and AYBL Lease 
Addendum in accordance with 14 DCMR § 6400.6, and move into the 
Rewards Property unit, within ten (10) calendar days of the execution of 
the Contract of Participation.    
9809.6
DCHA shall provide the AYBL Family with copies of all executed    
documents.
9809.7  
AYBL eligible families will receive one (1) offer of transfer into a unit at 
a  Rewards Property for which the family is on the Site-based Transfer 
Waiting List. Refusal of the offer will result in removal of the household 
from all AYBL Site-based Transfer Waiting Lists.  
9809.8   
If  an  AYBL  eligible  family  is  on  more  than  one  AYBL  Site-based 
Transfer Waiting List and is then housed at one (1) of the Rewards 
Properties,  the  family’s  application  on  any  other  AYBL  Site-based 
Transfer Waiting Lists will be removed.  DCHA will not approve any 
tenant initiated transfers to any other AYBL Reward Properties. 
9809.9
Once removed from an AYBL Site-based Transfer Waiting List, a Public 
Housing family may reapply for participation in the AYBL Program when 
a waiting list is opened, as long as they remain eligible. 
9809.10
When the Contract of Participation is terminated by either DCHA or the 
AYBL Family, DCHA will issue a Required Transfer notice. Once a non-
Rewards Property public housing unit with the appropriate bedroom size 
becomes available, an offer will be made.  The AYBL Family will then 
have fourteen (14) calendar days to vacate the Rewards unit.  The AYBL 
Family is responsible for the relocation costs.
9809.11
AYBL Families subject to a Required Transfer pursuant to this Chapter 
will receive up to two (2) unit offers in writing.  The offers shall be for a 
dwelling  unit  for  the  appropriate  bedroom  size,  and  any  approved 
reasonable  accommodations  in  accordance  with  DCHA  Occupancy 
Standards.
9809.12
An AYBL Family that receives a written offer of a new dwelling unit and 
refuses to move after the unit has been identified may receive a second 
unit offer.  If the AYBL Family refuses a second unit offer, a “Notice to 
Cure or Vacate” shall be issued.  
9809.13 
AYBL Families are not exempt from any action that DCHA is authorized 
to  take  under  the  general  lease  and  AYBL  lease  addendum.    All 
applicable  actions  shall  transfer  with  the  AYBL  Family  to  the  new 
dwelling unit, and become part of the new lease agreement.
9809.14 
Transfers based on the completion or termination of the Contract of 
Participation is considered Required Transfers and DCHA will not pay the 
cost of moving out of an AYBL Rewards Property.  The AYBL Family is 
responsible for relocation costs.
9809.15
In the event the AYBL Lessee(s) who executes the lease, vacates public 
housing, the remaining AYBL Family residents will receive a “Notice to 
Vacate” subject to the AYBL Lease Addendum.  A remaining AYBL 
Family member may apply to become the new Head of Household. The 
new Head of Household must meet the AYBL eligibility requirements 
with the exception of the income requirement.    
9809.16
After service of the “Notice To Vacate” the remaining AYBL Family may 
request six (6) months to meet the AYBL earned income requirements. 
DCHA, at its sole discretion, may grant a request of six (6) months to meet 
the AYBL earned income requirements.  If the AYBL Family needs an 
additional six (6) months to meet the earned income eligibility, the AYBL 
Family may request an additional (6) six months to meet the income 
requirement.  DCHA at its sole discretion may grant the request for an 
additional six (6) months. The remaining AYBL Family members will be 
required to pay standard rent, as defined at 14 DCMR chapter 62.  The 
rent will be re-calculated in accordance with the standards set forth in 14 
DCMR chapter 62 for the remaining AYBL Family members and will be 
charged from the time in which the former member(s) vacate the Rewards 
unit and the remaining AYBL Family members can meet the earned 
income eligibility requirement or vacate the unit and move to conventional 
public housing.
9809.17 
If any household member, other than the Lessee, vacates the AYBL 
Rewards Property unit, thus leaving the original household, that household 
member cannot transfer to a conventional public housing unit independent 
of the Lessee.    
9809.18
Instances of domestic violence, as defined in DCHA’s Dwelling Lease 
Agreement, shall be treated according to the provisions therein. 
9809.19 
DCHA will pay for relocation costs for tenant initiated transfers based on 
a  reasonable  accommodation  request  made  in  accordance  with  the 
reasonable accommodation transfer regulations. 
Source: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 2460, 2467 (March 18, 2011); as 
amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 4346, 4347 (May 20, 2011).
