District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
5750
TRANSFER REQUEST BY TENANT
5750.1
DCHA will approve transfer requests for Families that are in compliance with the 
terms and conditions of their leases and have resided in their dwelling units for at 
least  one  year.  Families  with  a  disabled  household  member  that  request 
reasonable accommodation transfers and families requesting a transfer pursuant to 
VAWA, as described below, are not subject to the one-year limitation.
5750.2
A Family is compliant with the terms and conditions of its lease if:
(a)
Current on rent payments and/or on any repayment agreement, consent 
judgment agreement, or settlement agreement;
(b)
Current with recertification process;
(c)
Is not subject to a citation for any lease violation;
(d)
Has  a  good  housekeeping  record  as  evidenced  by  a  housekeeping 
inspection; and
(e)
Is not subject to a Notice to Correct or Vacate or a Notice to Vacate.
5750.3
Each member of the Family must be compliant with the terms and conditions of 
the lease.
5750.4
DCHA may deny requests for transfers by Families that are not compliant with 
the terms of their leases. Exceptions to the requirement that Families requesting 
transfers be lease compliant may be made for life threatening conditions or for 
tenants seeking transfers to units with accessible features.
5750.5
Transfers processed under this section will not take priority over  Mandatory 
Transfers or new admissions, except as provided under Subsection 5748.4. 
5750.6
DCHA shall acknowledge receipt of each Tenant Request for Transfer. The date 
of acknowledgment shall serve as the Tenant Request for Transfer date, which 
will be used by DCHA to determine the Family’s place on the Transfer Waiting 
List.
5750.7
DCHA shall notify the Family, in writing, in no more than thirty (30) days from 
the date of acknowledgment, what action it has taken with regard to the Tenant 
Request for Transfer, e.g., approval, disapproval, or further review of the Request 
is  required. If  further  review  is  necessary  due  to  a  lack  of  supporting 
documentation, DCHA shall  notify the Family, in writing, of what additional 
documentation is required.  Once such documentation is received, DCHA shall 
notify the Family, in writing, no more than thirty (30) days from the date of 
receipt, what action it has taken with regard to the Tenant Request for Transfer.
Housing
14 DCMR § 5750
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
5750.8
Although DCHA approves a Tenant Request for Transfer, a unit  may not be 
immediately available. When a unit is available, DCHA shall issue the Family a 
“Notice of Transfer Assignment.” The Notice will  direct the Family  when and 
where to report to inspect the new dwelling unit.
5750.9
The Family must be compliant with the terms and conditions of the lease at the 
time that its name reaches the top of the Transfer Waiting List. If the Family is 
not compliant with the terms and conditions of the lease as outlined in Subsection 
5750.2, DCHA may withdraw the Family’s transfer approval.
5750.10
If the Family accepts the new dwelling unit, the Family shall execute a Notice of 
Lease Termination at the property from which he/she is moving, upon completion 
of the arrangement for transfer to the new location.
5750.11
Upon acceptance of the new dwelling unit, the Family must execute a new lease, 
which, if applicable, accepts liability for any outstanding conditions related to the 
prior lease agreement. 
5750.12
In addition to the requirements specified in § 5748.5, families requesting a 
transfer shall bear the cost of moving to the new dwelling unit. The new dwelling 
unit shall not be held for more than fifteen (15) calendar days from the date of the 
unit availability. If a Family, who has an approved transfer, does not move into 
the new dwelling unit within fifteen (15) calendar days from the date of the unit’s 
availability, the unit offer shall be withdrawn and the Family’s name shall be 
removed from the Transfer Waiting List.
5750.13
If a Family refuses a transfer offer to the property of his/her own choice without 
good cause, the Family’s name shall be removed from the Transfer Waiting List 
and DCHA shall send the Family a notice of such action. If a Family did not 
identify a property, he/she  may be offered up to two locations. If the Family 
refuses the first, his/her name  may be returned to the Transfer Waiting List to 
await the availability of another unit. If the Family rejects the second assignment, 
his/her name will be removed from the Transfer Waiting List and DCHA shall 
send the Family a notice of such action.
5750.14
All actions or inactions by DCHA under this section are subject to the Family 
Grievance Procedure that is outlined in §§ 5730 et seq.
5750.15
The following conditions shall represent Priority Transfer Requests. Families who 
are approved for a Priority Transfer Requests will be transferred based on the 
hierarchy set forth in Subsection 5748.4 and on the date that the “Family Request 
for Transfer” was acknowledged by the DCHA:
(a)
Families that have a verified and approved  reasonable accommodation 
for a fully accessible unit or a unit with accessible features and that do 
Housing
14 DCMR § 5750
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
not currently reside in a unit that provides the approved reasonable 
accommodation;
(b)
The Family or a member of the Family is or has been the victim of 
domestic  violence,  dating  violence,  sexual  assault,  or  stalking,  as 
provided in 24 CFR part 5, subpart L, and the move is needed to protect 
the health or safety of the family or family member, or any family 
member has been the victim of a sexual assault that occurred on the 
premises  during  the  ninety  (90)-calendar-day  period  preceding  the 
family’s request to move; or
(c)
DCHA has terminated the HAP contract with the Property Owner.
5750.16
The following conditions shall dictate DCHA’s priority for Standard Transfer 
Requests. Families who are approved for a Voluntary Transfer will be transferred 
based on the hierarchy set forth below and on the date that the “Family Request 
for Transfer” was acknowledged by the DCHA:
(a)
First priority will be given to situations of a life threatening medical or 
public  safety  nature.  These  situations  may  include  serious  medical 
conditions, crimes, instances of violence not covered under Subsection 
5749.1(c), hate crimes, or other situations which endanger a Family or 
household member’s life from something other than the condition of the 
unit  or  the  building.  These  life-threatening  conditions  must  be 
documented and verified.
(b)
Second Priority shall be given to Families with an approved reasonable 
accommodation transfer who do not qualify for a Mandatory Transfer 
under Subsection 5749.1(c). These transfers would include transferring 
Families  to  accessible  or  adaptable  dwelling  units  or  sites  where 
conditions are documented to be more favorable for their disabilities than 
the unit or site from which they are seeking to transfer.
(c)
Third Priority shall be given to Families that are over or under housed. 
These transfers would permit Families to reside in dwelling units of the 
correct  size  for  household  members  listed  on  their  lease  or  those 
recognized by the DCHA as a result of its recertification process. To 
determine whether a dwelling unit is too small or too large, DCHA shall 
use the occupancy standards outlined at Section 5709 of this chapter. If 
DCHA approves a Family’s request for transfer, the household must 
transfer as one unit. The DCHA will not split families.
(d)
Fourth Priority shall be given to issues of convenience as described by 
Families requesting transfers.
Housing
14 DCMR § 5750
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
SOURCE:  Final Rulemaking at 64 DCR 12956 (December 22, 2017); as amended by Final Rulemaking published 
at 66 DCR 6831 (June 7, 2019). 
Housing
14 DCMR § 5750
