7601
WAITING LISTS
7601.1
DCHA maintains Waiting Lists as follows:
(a)
Housing Choice Voucher Program - tenant-based voucher assistance and project-
based voucher assistance, known as the Partnership Program operated in accordance 
with the rules set forth in Chapter 93 of this Title 14;
(b)
Moderate Rehabilitation Program - project-based assistance;
(c)
Tenant Assistance. Program (TAP) - locally funded project-based assistance, with 
local funding being phased out and DCHA is no longer accepting new applications; 
and
(d)
Public Housing - which is governed by Chapter 61 of this Title.
7601.2
Selection. The selection of applicants to receive vouchers is governed by special admissions, as 
further described in Subsection 7603 hereof, and preference categories that apply to selection 
from the waiting list, including Substandard Housing, Involuntarily Displaced, Rent Burdened, 
Affordable Housing Supply, Quality Affordable Housing, Special Needs Housing and Witness 
Relocation, as further described in Subsection 7604 hereof.
7601.3
Information maintained. DCHA maintains information that permits selection from the Waiting 
Lists in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter 76. The Waiting Lists shall contain the 
following information for each applicant listed:
(a)
Applicant Name;
(b)
Applicant Address, as required to be updated by Applicant upon any change;
(c)
Family Composition by age and gender for each member;
(d)
Date and time of application;
(e)
Qualification for any Local Preference;
(f)
Racial or ethnic designation, if provided at applicant's option;
(g)
Date of birth and Social Security Number (if applicable); and
(h)
Reasonable Accommodation Request and/or Special Unit Needs.
7601.4
Transfer Vouchers. Families already in the Housing Choice Voucher Program who request to 
transfer their voucher from one participating landlord to another are processed under the 
provisions of Chapter 85 of this Title 14.
SOURCE: Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 11120 (August 20, 2004); 
as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 1153 (February 17, 2006).
