District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
9209
HOME INSPECTION
9209.1
Before issuance of a Final Certificate of Assistance, the Applicant Family shall 
schedule two kinds of physical inspections required in the HOAP as follows:
(a) 
A  HUD  Housing  Quality  Standard  (HQS)  inspection  conducted  by 
DCHA.
(1) 
The  HQS  inspection  does  not  include  an  assessment  of  the 
adequacy and life span of the major building components, building 
systems, appliances or other structural components.
(2)
However, the HQS inspection shall indicate the current physical 
condition of the home and repairs necessary to ensure that the 
home is safe and otherwise habitable. 
(3) 
If the home fails the initial inspection, DCHA shall schedule a 
second inspection.  DCHA may require the family to pay for a 
third (3rd) and final inspection, if needed. 
(4)
If the home fails a third inspection, DCHA shall not approve the 
home purchase.
(b)
An independent professional home inspection by an inspector who is 
certified,  licensed,  and  bonded  and  is  neither  an  employee,  nor  a 
contractor of DCHA.
(1)
The inspection shall be a comprehensive evaluation of the major 
building components and systems of the home, determining the 
existing condition and the need, if any, for repairs.
(2)
At least the following shall be examined for deficiencies:
(i)
the structure;
(ii)
basement/crawl space(s);
(iii)
electrical and heating/cooling systems;
(iv)
energy/insulation;
(v)
ventilation;
(vi)
kitchen appliances;
(vii)
plumbing;
Housing
14 DCMR ยง 9209
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
(viii)
walls/ceiling;
(ix)
floors;
(x)
roof/attic;
(xi)
exterior finish;
(xii)
fireplace/chimney;
(xiii)
windows/doors; and
(xiv)
gutters/drainage.
9209.2
Request and payment for professional home inspection.
(a)
The independent professional home inspection shall be requested and paid 
for by the household.
(b)
A copy of the inspection report shall be provided to HCV/HOAP within 
five (5) working days of receipt of the report.
(c)
The source(s) of funds for payment of the professional home inspection 
may be a source other than household personal income.
9209.3
HCV/HOAP Review of Inspection Reports.
(a)
The HCV/HOAP shall review the professional inspection report and the 
HQS report to determine whether repairs are necessary prior to purchase 
and to generally assess whether the purchase transaction makes sense in 
light of the overall condition of the home and the likely cost of repairs.
(b)
Notice of Inspection Approval.
(1)
No deficiencies. If the HQS inspection report and the professional 
inspection report reveal that the home meets satisfactory standards 
and there are no deficiencies, the program shall provide a notice of 
inspection approval.
(2)
Contingent Approval for Minor Repairs. If the inspection reports 
indicate the need for repairs that can be corrected in a time period 
that compliments the purchaser's time table, the program shall 
provide the household with a notice of inspection approval, subject 
to  the  completion  of  repairs  at  the  seller's  expense,  and  a 
Housing
14 DCMR ยง 9209
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
satisfactory  follow  up  inspection  by  HQS  or  the  professional 
inspector.
(c)
Options if Major Repairs Required. If the HQS inspection report and/or 
the report from the professional inspector reveals major defects in and/or 
repairs to the home, the HCV/HOAP shall either issue a Contingent 
Disapproval or a Notice of Disapproval.
(d)
Contingent Disapproval.
(1)
If HCV/HOAP considers the major repairs to be feasible, the 
HCV/HOAP  shall  outline  those  defects/repairs  noted  in  the 
inspection report that shall be corrected by the Seller, at Seller's 
expense, prior to purchase and stipulate the specific time frame by 
which they shall be corrected.
(2)
Re-inspection shall be required upon completion of the repairs. 
The HCV/HOAP shall complete a follow-up HQS inspection. The 
Applicant Family shall be required to obtain a follow up inspection 
from the professional inspector to review the corrections, with any 
additional fee to be paid by the Family.
(3)
HCV/HOAP shall receive a copy of the follow-up home inspection 
report from the professional inspector.
(4)
The home inspection report shall be acceptable to HCV/HOAP 
before approval to continue shall be granted.
(e)
Notice of Disapproval.
(1)
If HCV/HOAP determines that the home is not suitable for HOAP 
Subsidy because of the major physical problems and/or the cost of 
the subsequent repairs HCV/HOAP shall issue a written Notice of 
Disapproval.  The  notice  shall  state  the  reason(s)  for  the 
disapproval.
(2)
The notice shall direct the Seller to return all earnest money and 
inform the household that they shall withdraw their offer and 
search for another home to purchase.
(3)
The time period between the inspections and the disapproval shall 
not be counted against the 180 days allowed for the search and 
closure process under Subsection 9205.8, above.
Housing
14 DCMR ยง 9209
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 49 DCR 5767 (June 21, 2002); as amended by Final Rulemaking 
published at 52 DCR 6180 (July 1, 2005); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 65 DCR 7847 (July 27, 
2018).
Housing
14 DCMR ยง 9209
