District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
5768
REQUEST  FOR  REASONABLE  ACCOMMODATIONS  BY 
RAD/PBV PARTICIPANTS AND APPLICANTS
5768.1
Requested accommodations will not be approved if one of the following would 
occur as a result:
(a)
A violation of District of Columbia and/or federal law;
(b)
A fundamental alteration in the nature of the RAD/PBV program;
(c)
An  undue  financial  and  administrative  burden  on  owner  of  the 
RAD/PBV property;
(d)
A structurally unfeasible alteration; or
(e)
An  alteration  requiring  the  removal  or  alteration  of  a  load-bearing 
structural member.
5768.2
All requests for reasonable accommodation shall be reduced to writing on the 
reasonable  accommodation  form  by  the  participant,  applicant,  any  person 
identified by the individual, or by the Project Owner or DCHA staff member to 
whom the request is made. This form includes various forms of reasonable 
accommodations as well as the general principles of reasonable accommodation. 
The reasonable accommodation form shall be submitted to DCHA’s Office of the 
504/ADA Coordinator for processing.
5768.3
The  504/ADA  Coordinator  shall  request  documentation  of  the  need  for  a 
Reasonable  Accommodation  as  identified  on  the  Request  for  Reasonable 
Accommodation form as well as suggested reasonable accommodations to assist 
the participant in the opportunity to fully enjoy the dwelling unit or non-housing 
program.
5768.4
The following may provide verification of a participant’s disability and the need 
for the requested accommodation:
(a)
Physician;
(b)
Licensed health professional;
(c)
Professional representing a social service agency; or
(d)
Disability agency or clinic.
5768.5
The participant will be notified in writing of the final reasonable accommodation 
determination by the ADA/504 Coordinator. If the accommodation is approved, 
Housing
14 DCMR § 5768
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
the participant will be notified of the projected date for implementation. If the 
accommodation is denied, the participant will be notified of the reasons for denial.
5768.6
All recommendations that have been approved by the ADA/504 Coordinator will 
be forwarded to the Office of the Deputy Executive Director for Operations, in 
consultation with the PBV/RAD property owner, for implementation. All requests 
for reasonable accommodation that are approved by the Office of the Deputy 
Executive Director for Operations will promptly be implemented or begin the 
process of implementation.
5768.7
If a request for a reasonable accommodation is denied pursuant to the reasons 
provided in § 5768.1, DCHA will seek to provide the individual with a disability 
an alternative opportunity to fully participate in the program or activity provided 
by DCHA.
5768.8
DCHA shall not require a participant with a disability to accept a transfer in lieu 
of providing a reasonable accommodation. However, if a RAD/PBV participant 
with a disability requests dwelling unit modifications that involve structural 
changes, including, but not limited to widening entrances, rooms, or hallways, and 
there is a vacant, comparable, appropriately sized UFAS compliant unit in that 
participant’s project or an adjacent project, DCHA may offer to transfer the 
participant to the vacant unit in his/her project or adjacent project in lieu of 
providing  structural  modifications.  However,  if  that  participant  rejects  the 
proffered transfer, DCHA shall make modifications to the participant’s unit unless 
doing  so  would  be  structurally  impracticable  or  would  result  in  an  undue 
administrative and financial burden.
5768.9
If the participant accepts the transfer, DCHA will work with the participant to 
obtain moving expenses from social service agencies or other similar sources. If 
that effort to obtain moving expenses is unsuccessful within thirty (30) days of the 
assignment  of  the  dwelling  unit,  DCHA  shall  pay  the  reasonable  moving 
expenses. Nothing contained in this paragraph is intended to modify the terms of 
DCHA’s Tenant and Assignment Plan and any participant’s rights thereunder.
5768.10
Reasonable Accommodations will be made for applicants during the application 
process. All applications must be taken in an accessible location. Applications 
will be made available in accessible formats. Interpreters and readers will be 
made available upon request.
SOURCE:  Final Rulemaking at 64 DCR 12956 (December 22, 2017); as amended by Final Rulemaking published 
at 66 DCR 6831 (June 7, 2019). 
Housing
14 DCMR § 5768
