District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
9899
DEFINITIONS
Achieving Your Best Life Rewards Program (AYBL) – a DCHA established 
and administered Public Housing homeownership program designed to 
promote  self-sufficiency  and  homeownership  by  assisting  program 
participants in benefitting from supportive services.  Participants reside at 
DCHA  identified  properties—known  as  Rewards  Properties—while 
preparing for homeownership.
Adjusted Unearned Income—For purposes of the AYBL program, adjusted 
Unearned  income  is  Unearned  Income  less  deductions  as  defined  in 
Adjusted Income at 14 DCMR § 6099.1.
AYBL Applicant Family -- a Public Housing family living in conventional 
public housing or in a mixed finance development unit which is subsidized 
with Annual Contributions Contract assistance, or is currently in the 
selection pool, and who has submitted a completed application, including 
all required documents, for consideration to become an AYBL Family.
AYBL Families Eligible for HCVP/HOAP Participation - a household of one 
(1) or more persons that meets the following minimum requirements:
(a)
As a threshold determination for participation in the AYBL HCV/HOAP, 
a Family shall have met the AYBL participation requirements under the 
Contract of Participation and ITSP.
(b)
Lease compliant.
(c)
A Family that meets the threshold determination shall then meet the 
following eligibility requirements: 
(1) 
Employment. The household shall provide proof of employment 
such that:
(A)
One (1) or more of the adult household members who shall 
be a borrower or co-borrower at the commencement of 
receiving HOAP assistance, is currently employed on a 
Full-Time Basis; and
(B)
At least one (1) borrower shall have been employed for at 
least two (2) continuous years preceding the beginning of 
HOAP Subsidy. 
        
(2) 
Minimum Income. 
Housing
14 DCMR § 9899
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
(A) 
The household shall demonstrate that gross annual income 
of the borrower and/or co-borrower is equal to at least one 
hundred  twenty-seven  percent  (127%)  of  the  minimum 
income  eligibility  requirement  established  for  AYBL 
participation or such other minimum percentage as may be 
established  by  DCHA  from  time  to  time.  Elderly  and 
Disabled Families may, in addition to any earned income, 
include unearned income from SSI, SSDI, pensions, etc. 
(B) 
Except in the case of Elderly or Disabled Families, income 
shall  come  from  sources  other  than  governmental 
assistance  programs  such  as  Temporary  Assistance  for 
Needy Families. 
(3) 
Applicants for the HCV/HOAP shall be enrolled in the AYBL 
program. 
(4)  
Good  Standing.  The  household  shall  be  in  Good  Standing  as 
follows: 
(A)
The household shall have disclosed and satisfied all prior 
debts to DCHA or any other federally funded housing 
program.
(B)
The  household  shall  not  have  committed  fraud  in 
connection with the Public Housing program or any other 
federally
 
funded
 
housing
 
program. 
(C)
The household shall not have defaulted, or be in default, on 
any mortgage securing debt to purchase a home under any 
prior HCV/HOAP participation. 
(d)
If a household purchases or takes title to a home before receiving approval 
to participate in the HCV/HOAP, the household shall be determined 
ineligible.
(e)
The employment requirement does not apply to an Elderly or Disabled 
Family.
AYBL Family - a Public Housing family in which the DCHA AYBL approved 
Lessee(s) has executed a Contract of Participation and an Individual 
Training and Service Plan(s) (ITSP). 
AYBL Home Visit Inspection – an inspection using Uniform Physical Condition 
Standards (UPCS) and DCHA Housekeeping standards that is performed 
on the public housing unit where the resident resides when the AYBL 
Housing
14 DCMR § 9899
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
application is submitted to DCHA.   AYBL applicant families are given at 
least forty-eight (48) hours’ notice of DCHA’s intent to enter the unit.
AYBL Lease Addendum – an addendum to the Public Dwelling Lease that 
outlines  responsibilities  and  legal  obligations  specific  to  AYBL 
participation.
AYBL Participant – a Lessee(s) (Head of Household and spouse, domestic 
partner or co-head, if applicable) who has signed an AYBL Contract of 
Participation  and  an  ITSP  and  a  dwelling  unit  lease  agreement  at  a 
Rewards Property.
AYBL Site-based Transfer Waiting List -  a transfer waiting list of Public 
Housing households that have been determined eligible for participation in 
the AYBL program.  Each AYBL site will have transfer waiting list(s). 
AYBL transfer waiting lists will be organized by unit type and bedroom 
size.  Families will be placed on an AYBL transfer waiting list in order 
based on application numbers determined by a lottery.  As AYBL units 
become available, eligible families requiring the unit features (including 
bedroom size) will be referred from that site transfer waiting list. 
AYBL Tenant Rent – rent calculated for an AYBL Family is the amount of rent 
payable to DCHA under the dwelling lease. For the purposes of the AYBL 
program only, AYBL Tenant Rent will be calculated as thirty percent 
(30%) of the AYBL participant(s) adjusted Unearned Income and the total 
income of any other non-AYBL participant(s) in the household, if any. 
For each AYBL family with non-AYBL participant members, a minimum 
rent of one hundred dollars ($100) will be charged.  In the event that the 
amount calculated for an AYBL family that does not include non-AYBL 
participant members is less than zero dollars ($0), the AYBL Tenant Rent 
charged will be zero dollars ($0).  
AYBL Program Application – an application that DCHA provides to a Public 
Housing family for consideration for admission to the AYBL program 
which may require additional supporting documents and information to be 
provided by each AYBL Applicant Family. 
Certificate of Completion – a Certificate of Completion shall be issued upon:
(a)
Successful completion of the home ownership and housing counseling 
sessions;
(b)
Verification that the AYBL Family has an acceptable credit report; and
(c)
Verification that the AYBL Family has sufficient assets to make at least a 
one percent (1%) down payment investment from personal resources.
Housing
14 DCMR § 9899
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
Contract of Participation (COP) – a contract entered into between the Lessee(s) 
of an AYBL Family, and DCHA that sets forth the terms and conditions 
governing  participation  in  the  AYBL  program.  The  Contract  of 
Participation includes the Individual Training and Service Plans (ITSPs) 
completed  by  the  participating  household  members.   An  ITSP(s)  is 
attached  to  and  incorporated  into  the  Contract  of  Participation.  The 
effective date of the Contract of Participation is the first (1st) day of the 
month  following  the  month  in  which  the  AYBL  Lessee  and  DCHA 
entered into the Contract of Participation. 
DCHA - the District of Columbia Housing Authority (DCHA) or any successor 
agency, thereto.
Disabled Person- a person who is under a disability as defined in § 233 of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. § 423) or in § 102 of the Developmental 
Disabilities Services Facilities Construction Amendments of 1970, (42 
U.S.C. §§ 6001, et seq.).  Section 233 of the Social Security Act defines 
disability as follows:
(a)
Inability to engage in any substantial, gainful activity by reason of any 
medically  determinable  physical  or  mental  impairment  which  can  be 
expected to result in death or which has lasted or can be expected to last 
for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months; or 
(b)
In the case of an individual who has attained the age of fifty-five (55) and 
is blind (within the meaning of “blindness” as defined in 416(i)(1) of this 
title), inability by reason of such blindness to engage insubstantial gainful 
activity requiring skills or abilities comparable to those of any gainful 
activity in which he or she has previously engaged with some regularity 
and over a substantial period of time.
Disabled Family - a household whose head, spouse or sole member is a person 
with a disability(ies).  
Earned  Income  –  The  Earned  Income  of  the  Lessee(s)  who  will  be  the 
borrower/co-borrower shall be considered for determining AYBL program 
eligibility and AYBL HCVP/HOAP eligibility. For purposes of the AYBL 
program, Earned Income includes the following:
(a)
The full amount of employment income before any payroll deductions, of 
wages and salaries, overtime pay, commissions, fees, tips and bonuses and 
other compensation for personal services;  
(b)
The net income from operation of a business or profession. Expenditures 
for business expansion or amortization of capital indebtedness shall not be 
Housing
14 DCMR § 9899
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
used  as  deductions  in  determining  net  income.   An  allowance  for 
depreciation of assets used in a business or profession may be deducted, 
based on straight line depreciation, as provided in the Internal Revenue 
Service regulations.  Any withdrawal of cash or assets from the operation 
of business or profession will be included in income, except to the extent 
the  withdrawal  is  reimbursement  of  cash  or  assets  invested  in  the 
operation by the family;
(c)
Social  security  payments  received  by  the  Lessee(s)  who  are 
elderly/disabled with the exception of children and widows/widowers 
receiving Social Security benefits on behalf of someone else; and
(d)
All regular pay, special pay and allowances of a member of the Armed 
Forces (whether or not living in the dwelling) who is head of the family, 
spouse, or other person whose dependents are residing in the unit.
  
Elderly Family -  a household whose head, spouse or sole member is at least 
sixty-two (62) years of age.  
Elderly Person – a person who is at least sixty-two (62) years of age.
Eligible AYBL Family –  a family that currently resides at a DCHA Public 
Housing  who  meets  the  AYBL  program  income  and  eligibility 
requirements set forth in section 9806 of this chapter.
Full-time Employment - working at least thirty (30) hours per week.
Head of Household – the person(s) who signs the Public Housing lease. The 
Head of Household is also considered the Lessee.  
HCVP/HOAP  -  the  Housing  Choice  Voucher  Program/Homeownership 
Assistance Program (HCVP/HOAP) that is operated by the District of 
Columbia Housing Authority (DCHA).  For the purposes of this chapter 
only, “HCVP/HOAP” and “HOAP” are used interchangeably.
HOAP Applicant Family - an eligible HCVP/HOAP Family that has been issued 
a  Certificate  of  Completion  and  is  in  the  process  of  obtaining  a 
Preliminary  Certificate  of  Assistance;  Mortgage  Pre-approval;  Home 
Search Authorization; Final Certificate of Assistance.
HOAP  Subsidy  or  HCVP/HOAP  Assistance  -  homeownership  subsidy 
assistance for payment to a mortgage lender on behalf of a Participating 
Family as provided through the Housing Choice Voucher program in the 
amount as determined pursuant to 14 DCMR § 9212.2.
Housing
14 DCMR § 9899
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
Homeownership Preparation Housing – under the AYBL program, is a Reward 
Property.  
Individual Training and Services Plan (ITSP) - a written plan that is prepared 
by DCHA in consultation with each approved AYBL participant. 
(a) The ITSP sets forth:
(1)
The supportive services to be identified for the family member;
(2)
The activities to be completed by that family member; and
(3)
The agreed upon completion dates for the services and activities
(b) Each  ITSP  must  be  signed  by  DCHA  and  the  participating  family  
member(s), and is attached to, and incorporated as part of the Contract of 
Participation.
Lessee – The individual(s) that sign(s) the Lease with DCHA. 
Lottery – the approach utilized to determine the placement of an eligible AYBL 
Applicant  on  the  AYBL  Site-based  Transfer  Waiting  List.   Eligible 
applications will be assigned a number.  At a public lottery overseen by a 
third  party,  random  numbers  will  be  selected  to  determine  which 
applicants will be selected for placement on AYBL Site-based Transfer 
Waiting Lists.
Maintenance Escrow - the amount of money paid by the AYBL Family into an 
escrow account to be utilized for the maintenance of the AYBL Rewards 
Property unit while the AYBL family is in the program. The maintenance 
escrow is designed to prepare AYBL Families for the responsibilities 
related to paying for home repairs.  The maintenance escrow is equal to 
two percent (2%) of the household Earned Income.  At the end of AYBL 
program participation, any monies not spent toward the AYBL Family’s 
unit maintenance will be transferred to DCHA to fund necessary property 
maintenance.
Maintenance Escrow Payment – the amount paid into a maintenance escrow 
account by AYBL Families.  The payment shall equal two percent (2%) of 
each AYBL participant(s) Earned Income.  
Notice of Non-Compliance –notice of any breach of the Contract of Participation 
or AYBL Lease Addendum.   
Notice of Termination of Program Participation – notice of termination from 
the AYBL Program.  
Housing
14 DCMR § 9899
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
Preliminary Certificate of Assistance  – preliminary homeownership voucher 
issued by DCHA that reflects the amount of voucher assistance the AYBL 
Family  would  receive.   The  Preliminary  Certificate  of  Assistance  is 
utilized by the AYBL Family to present to a potential lender(s) as part of 
the AYBL Family’s application for mortgage pre-approval.
Returning Family – lesses(s) who were required to relocate from their unit due 
to the initial designation of the property as a Rewards Property and the 
associated modernization.   
Required Transfer – transfer from Rewards Property to a conventional Public 
Housing Unit due to termination from the AYBL Rewards Program. 
Failure of the AYBL Family to transfer to a conventional Public Housing 
unit may result in a lease enforcement action. All relocation costs are the 
responsibility of the AYBL family.  
Rewards Property -  DCHA Public Housing properties that have undergone 
comprehensive modernization and unit feature additions with specified 
units  that  serve  as  homeownership  preparation  housing  for  AYBL 
families.  Residence in these newly renovated properties is part of an 
incentive  to  encourage  families  to  achieve  self-sufficiency.   AYBL 
Families  reside  in  these  units  for  the  lifetime  of  their  Contract  of 
Participation.  These properties are selected for participation in AYBL at 
the  sole  discretion  of  DCHA.   Not  all  DCHA  Public  Housing 
developments that undergo comprehensive modernization and unit feature 
additions will become Rewards Properties.
Savings Escrow - the amount of money paid by the AYBL participant into an 
escrow account to be utilized by AYBL participating family member(s), 
upon  approval  by  DCHA,  in  fulfillment  of  the  AYBL  Family’s 
homeownership goal.  The savings escrow is equal to twenty-eight percent 
(28%) of the AYBL Lessee’s(s) Earned Income.  
Savings Escrow Payment – The amount AYBL Families shall pay into a savings 
escrow account.  The payment shall be equal to twenty-eight (28%) of the 
AYBL Lessee’s(s) Earned Income.
Self-Sufficiency - for a family or family member to be considered self-sufficient, 
the family must not be receiving any public assistance or any Federal, 
State or local rent/homeownership subsidies.
Standard Rent – rent calculated for non-AYBL Public Housing residents in 
accordance with 14 DCMR § 6200.
Housing
14 DCMR § 9899
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
Subsidiary Ledger - DCHA will maintain a Subsidiary Ledger which at a 
minimum will contain all ABYL participants and their respective escrow 
balances. A Subsidiary Ledger is a sub-set of DCHA’s General Ledger 
and  contains  supporting  data  for  a  General  Ledger  balance.   The 
Subsidiary Ledger will be updated whenever there is a change to program 
participant data. 
Supportive Services - services that will assist an AYBL Family member under an 
ITSP move toward self-sufficiency. These services may include:
(a)
Child care—child care of a type that provides sufficient hours of operation 
and serves an appropriate range of ages;
(b)
Transportation—transportation necessary to enable a participating family 
to  receive  available  services,  or  to  commute  to  their  places  of 
employment;
(c)
Education—remedial education; education for completion of secondary or 
post-secondary schooling;
(d)
Employment—job training, preparation, and counseling; job development 
and  placement;  and  follow-up  assistance  after  job  placement  and 
completion of the Contract of Participation;
(e)
Personal  welfare—substance/alcohol  abuse  treatment  and  associated 
counseling;
(f)
Household  skills  and  management—training  in  homemaking  and 
parenting skills; household management and money management;
(g)
Counseling—counseling in the areas of:
(1)
The responsibilities of homeownership;  and
(2)
Opportunities available for affordable rental and homeownership 
in the private housing market, including information on individual 
rights under the Fair Housing Act; and money management; and
(h)
Other  services—any  other  services  and  resources,  including  case 
management  and/or  reasonable  accommodations  for  individuals  with 
disabilities, that DCHA may determine to be appropriate for assisting 
AYBL Families to achieve homeownership.
Unearned Income -  For purposes of the AYBL program, Unearned Income 
includes the following:
Housing
14 DCMR § 9899
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
(a)
The  full  amount  of  periodic  payments  received  from  social  security, 
annuities,  insurance  policies,  retirement  funds,  pensions,  disability  or 
death benefits and other similar types of periodic receipts;
(b)
Payments  in  lieu  of  earnings  such  as  unemployment  and  disability 
compensation, worker’s compensation and severance pay;
(c)
Public (Welfare) assistance.  If the public assistance payment includes an 
amount specifically designated for shelter and utilities that is subject to 
adjustment by the public assistance agency in accordance with the actual 
cost of shelter and utilities, the amount of welfare assistance income to be 
included as unearned income shall consist of the following:
(1)
The  amount  of  allowance  or  grant  exclusive  of  the  amount 
specifically designated for shelter or utilities; and
(2)
The maximum amount that the welfare assistance agency could in 
fact allow the family for shelter and utilities.  If the family’s 
welfare assistance is ratably reduced from the standard of need by 
applying a percentage, the amount calculated shall be the amount 
resulting from one application of the percentage;
(d)
Periodic and determinable allowances and regular contributions or gifts 
received from persons not residing in the dwelling;
(e)
Any earned income tax credit to the extent it exceeds income tax liability;
(f)
Social Security benefits received by children and widowers on behalf of 
someone else; and
(g)
Alimony and child support payments.
SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 2460, 2473 (March 18, 2011); as amended by Final Rulemaking 
published at 58 DCR 4346, 4348 (May 20, 2011); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 61 DCR 1467 
(February 21, 2014).
Housing
14 DCMR § 9899
