District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
9821 
DEFAULT
9821.1 
If  an  AYBL  Family  defaults  under  any  of  the  terms  of  the  Contract  of 
Participation, the tenancy shall automatically convert to a conventional public 
housing tenancy. All sums due pursuant to the Contract of Participation shall be 
deemed rent and are payable to DCHA. The AYBL Family shall transfer to a 
conventional public housing unit pursuant this chapter. DCHA shall be entitled to 
initiate legal action in any appropriate forum for possession and/or rent.
9821.2 
The rent will be re-calculated in accordance with the standards set forth in 14 
DCMR Chapter 62. DCHA will initiate an interim recertification to determine the 
new rent amount based on the information currently available in DCHA records.
9821.3 
Events of default include but are not limited to:
(a) 
Any  breach  of  the  Contract  of  Participation  or  of  the  AYBL  Lease 
Addendum;
(b) 
Failure to make any required payment under the AYBL Lease Addendum;
(c) 
Failure to maintain the balance in their maintenance escrow account due to 
tenant caused damages;
(d) 
Failure to timely pay escrow and/or rent;
(e) 
Failure to attend required training sessions or meetings;
(f) 
Failure to submit interim or periodic recertification;
(g) 
Failure to report increases in income in accordance with recertification 
regulations; and
(h) 
Failure to report changes in family composition.
9821.4 
Upon default or voluntary termination of the Contract of Participation or non-
payment of escrow accounts, all escrow accounts are deemed rent and subject to 
the jurisdiction of the D.C. Superior Court Landlord Tenant Branch.
9821.5 
In the event the family is in default of their Contract of Participation, DCHA shall 
provide a written Notice of Non-Compliance. The AYBL family will have an 
opportunity to meet with DCHA staff, examine any documents, records and/or 
regulations that are the basis of the default and have the opportunity to cure or 
correct the default. The family must cure the default within six (6) months from 
the date of the Non-Compliance or by the end of the term of their Contract of 
Participation, whichever is shorter. The notice shall be mailed or hand delivered 
Housing
14 DCMR ยง 9821
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
to the family at their unit in the AYBL Rewards Property.
9821.6 
In the event the family is in default of their Contract of Participation, DCHA shall 
provide written notice of the default, an opportunity to meet with DCHA staff, 
and the opportunity to cure or correct the default. The family must cure the 
default within six (6) months from the date of the notice or by the end of the term 
of their Contract of Participation, whichever is shorter. The notice shall be mailed 
or hand delivered to the family at their unit in the AYBL Rewards Property.
SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 2460, 2477 (March 18, 2011); as amended by Final Rulemaking 
published at 58 DCR 4347, 4348 (May 20, 2011); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 63 DCR 13165 
(November 18, 2016).
Housing
14 DCMR ยง 9821
