District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
9100
PROGRAM PURPOSE
9100.1
The United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) is 
conducting the Moving to Work (MTW) Housing Choice Voucher Program Rent 
Reform  Demonstration  program  (Rent  Reform  Demonstration  or  Program), 
designed to implement and evaluate an alternative rent policy, implemented by 
several  MTW  agencies.   DCHA  has  been  selected  to  participate  in  the 
demonstration, and as such, shall modify its policies and rent calculations for a 
group of program participants (study group), and shall compare the results to a 
group of program participants who are assisted under the rent policies used for all 
other  DCHA  assisted  households  (control  group).   The  HUD  Rent  Reform 
Demonstration  Program  is  designed  to  implement  and  assess  an  alternative 
strategy to standard HUD operating rules for HCVP. The proposed alternative 
rent policies shall include the following five key features: 
(a)
Simplify  income determination and rent  calculation of the household’s 
Total Tenant Payment (TTP) and subsidy amount by:
1.
Eliminating deductions and allowances,
2.
Changing the percent of income used to calculate the total tenant 
payment from 30% of adjusted income to a maximum of 28% of 
gross income, 
3.
Ignoring income from assets when the asset value is less than 
$25,000, and
4.
Using retrospective income, i.e., 12-month “look-back” period and, 
in  some  cases,  current/anticipated  income  in  estimating  a 
household’s TTP and subsidy.
(b)
Conduct triennial income recertification rather than biennial recertification 
with provisions for interim recertification and hardship waivers if income 
decreases. 
(c)
Streamline interim certifications to  eliminate income review for  most 
household composition changes and moves to new units.
(d)
Require that the family rent to owner is the greater of 28% of gross 
monthly  income  less  any  applicable  utility  allowance  or  at  least  the 
minimum rent of $75.   
(e)
Simplify the policy for determining utility allowances.
Housing
14 DCMR § 9100
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
(f)
Additionally, the program shall offer appropriate hardship protections to 
prevent any participant in the study group from being unduly impacted as 
discussed in Section 9118.
(g)
Prior to issuing a recommendation for termination, DCHA will exercise its 
discretion  on  a  case-by-case  basis  in  issuing  a  recommendation  for 
termination based solely on a study group Family’s failure to pay a new 
higher rent due to the program rent calculation. 
SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 61 DCR 9596 (September 19, 2014); as amended by Final Rulemaking 
published at 61 DCR 12037 (November 21, 2014).
Housing
14 DCMR § 9100
