District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
5718
EARNED INCOME DISREGARD
5718.1
Definitions. The following definitions apply for purposes of this section.
(a)
Baseline income. The annual income immediately prior to implementation 
of the disallowance described in Subsection 5718.3 of this section of a 
person who is a member of a qualified family.
(b)
Disallowance. Exclusion from annual income.
(c) 
Previously unemployed includes a person who has earned, in the twelve 
months prior to employment, no more than would be received for ten (10) 
hours of work per week for fifty (50) weeks at the established minimum 
wage. 
5718.2
Qualified family. A family residing in public housing:
(a)
Whose annual income increases as a result of employment of a family 
member  who  was  unemployed  for  one  or  more  years  previous  to 
employment;
(b)
Whose annual income increases as a result of increased earnings by a 
family member during participation in any economic self-sufficiency or 
other job training program; or
(c)
Whose  annual  income  increases,  as  a  result  of  new  employment  or 
increased earnings of a family member, during or within six months after 
receiving assistance, benefits or services under any state program for 
temporary assistance for needy families funded under Part A of Title IV of 
the Social Security Act, as determined by the PHA in consultation with the 
local  agencies  administering  temporary  assistance  for  needy  families 
(TANF) and Welfare-to-Work (WTW) programs. The TANF program is 
not  limited  to  monthly  income  maintenance,  but  also  includes  such 
benefits  and  services  as  one-time  payments,  wage  subsidies  and 
transportation assistance -- provided that the total amount over a six-
month period is at least five hundred dollars ($ 500).
5718.3
Disallowance of earned income 
(a)
Initial  twelve  (12)-month  exclusion.  During  the  12-month  period 
beginning on the date on which a member of a qualified family is first 
employed or the family first experiences an increase in annual income 
attributable  to  employment,  the  PHA  must  exclude  from  the  annual 
income of a qualified family any increase in the income of the family 
Housing
14 DCMR ยง 5718
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
member as a result of employment over the baseline income of that family 
member.
(b) 
Phase-in of rent increase. Upon the expiration of the 12-month period 
defined in paragraph (a) of this subsection and for the subsequent 12-
month  period,  the  PHA  must  exclude  from  the  annual  income  of  a 
qualified family at least fifty percent (50%) of any increase in income of 
such family member as a result of employment over the family member's 
baseline income.
(c)
Maximum  two  (2)-year  disallowance.  The  disallowance  of  increased 
income of an individual family member as provided in paragraph (a) or (b) 
of this subsection is limited to a lifetime twenty-four (24)-month period. It 
applies for a maximum of twelve (12) months for disallowance under 
paragraph  (a)  of  this  subsection  and  a  maximum  of  12  months  for 
disallowance under paragraph (b) of this subsection, during the 24-month 
period starting from the initial exclusion under paragraph (a) of this 
subsection. 
(d)
No rent phase in. Upon the expiration of the Earned Income Disregard, the 
rent adjustment shall not be subject to rent phase-in. Instead, rent will 
automatically rise to the appropriate level. 
5718.4
Inapplicability to admission. The disallowance of increases in income as a result 
of employment under this section does not apply for purposes of admission to the 
program (including the determination of income eligibility and income targeting).
SOURCE:  Final Rulemaking at 64 DCR 12956 (December 22, 2017); as amended by Final Rulemaking published 
at 66 DCR 6831 (June 7, 2019). 
Housing
14 DCMR ยง 5718
