District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
5748
TRANSFER POLICY
5748.1
It shall be the policy of the District of Columbia Housing Authority (DCHA) to 
transfer Families from one dwelling unit to another to alleviate conditions of 
hardship  caused  by  physical  conditions  or  to  address changed  family 
circumstances. Transfers may result from actions mandated by DCHA or result 
from requests by Families.  To facilitate such transfer, DCHA may offer units in 
its traditional public housing or in its RAD inventory, excluding RAD units 
within  any  Private  Mixed  Finance  Project.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing, 
Families  residing  within  any  Private  Mixed  Finance  Project  may  also  be 
transferred within or between any Private Mixed Finance Project in accordance 
with  any  applicable  regulatory  and  operating  agreement  or  RAD  control 
agreement.
5748.2
It is DCHA’s policy that transfers will be  made without regard to race, color, 
national origin, sex, religion, or familial  status. Families can be transferred to 
accommodate a disability.
5748.3
Transfers will be processed by the Office of the Director of Property Management 
Operations.  Families may apply to their property manager for a transfer, but all 
paperwork, verifications and unit assignments shall be processed by the Office of 
the Director of Property Management Operations.  Applications for transfer must 
be made in writing, must state the reason(s) for requesting the transfer, and must 
provide any supporting documentation.  Families may use the “Tenant Request 
for Transfer” form available in each property management office or at the DCHA 
central office.
5748.4
Mandatory Transfers and Priority Transfer Requests shall take precedence over 
new admissions. New admissions shall take precedence over Standard Transfer 
Requests.  DCHA  shall  assign  vacant  units  that  it  does  not  need  to  house 
Mandatory Transferees or Priority Transfer Requests, using a ratio of five units for 
initial occupancy by applicants on the Public Housing Waiting Lists, to one unit 
for a Family from the DCHA Transfer Waiting List.
5748.5
Upon acceptance of the new dwelling unit, the Lessee must execute a new lease 
agreement. All causes of action of any nature whatsoever available to DCHA or 
the Project Owner at the previous dwelling unit shall be actionable by DCHA or 
the Project Owner of the previous dwelling unit after transfer, whether such 
transfer is a Mandatory Transfer or a Tenant Request for Transfer. This regulation 
does not waive any statute of limitations otherwise applicable to such claims.
5748.6
Sections 5748 through 5751 govern all transfers initiated by DCHA or requested 
by participating Families in RAD Covered Projects.
SOURCE:  Final Rulemaking at 64 DCR 12956 (December 22, 2017); as amended by Final Rulemaking published 
at 66 DCR 6831 (June 7, 2019). 
Housing
14 DCMR § 5748
