District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
4102 
REGISTRATION INFORMATION
4102.1
Each rental unit required to be registered by this chapter shall be listed on a 
Registration/Claim of Exemption Form filed with the Rental Accommodations 
Division in accordance with § 3901 for the housing accommodation of which the 
rental unit is a part.
4102.2
Except as provided by § 4102.3, each housing accommodation that has a separate 
street  address  shall  be  registered  by  filing  a  separate  Registration/Claim  of 
Exemption Form with the Rental Accommodations Division.
4102.3
If a multi-building housing complex consists of more than one (1) street address 
but is operated under a single housing business license, the housing provider shall 
file  a  single  Registration/Claim  of  Exemption  Form  with  the  Rental 
Accommodations  Division  to  register  the  complex  as  a  single  housing 
accommodation,  stating  each  street  address  comprising  the  housing 
accommodation.  If a multi-building housing complex, or a single structure 
containing multiple rental units with one street address, is operated under more 
than  one  (1)  housing  business  license,  a  housing  provider  shall  file  a 
Registration/Claim of Exemption Form to register one housing accommodation 
for each housing business license used.
4102.4
A residential condominium unit or cooperative housing unit rented or offered for 
rent by its separate owner or proprietary leaseholder or member shall be deemed 
to be a housing accommodation consisting of one (1) rental unit, and shall be 
registered on a separate Registration/Claim of Exemption Form, in accordance 
with § 4102.2, except where the housing provider owns more than one (1) and 
fewer than five (5) rental units in the District of Columbia and claims the small 
landlord exemption in accordance with § 4107.  For any cooperative housing unit 
being registered as a rental unit by its separate owner or proprietary leaseholder or 
member, the Registration/Claim of Exemption Form shall be accompanied by 
evidence that the housing provider has authorization from the cooperative housing 
association to rent out the unit.  Each condominium unit occupied by an elderly 
tenant or tenant with a disability with a qualifying income by a condominium 
association pursuant to § 208(a) of the Rental Housing Conversion and Sale Act 
of  1980  (D.C.  Official  Code  §  42-3402.08(a))  shall  be  registered  by  the 
association as a rental unit within the housing accommodation that was converted 
pursuant to the Rental Housing Conversion and Sale Act of 1980. 
4102.5
A Registration/Claim of Exemption Form that is filed by a housing provider shall 
be accompanied by a copy of the housing business license for the premises that 
constitutes a housing accommodation, as required by §§ 200-207 of this title.  The 
street address of a housing accommodation on a Registration/Claim of Exemption 
Form shall be the same as the street address shown on the housing business 
license.  
Housing
14 DCMR § 4102
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
4102.6
Each Registration/Claim of Exemption Form shall contain:
(a)
The name, street address (not including mailbox services or post office 
box addresses), email address, and telephone number of each owner of the 
housing  accommodation,  including,  if  claiming  the  small  landlord  or 
cooperative exemptions pursuant to §§ 4107 or 4108, each person with an 
interest, directly or indirectly, in the housing accommodation; provided, 
that  the  name  of  any  person  holding  title  to  the  subject  housing 
accommodation shall match the name used on the recorded deed for the 
real property; 
(b)
If the owner is a non-resident of the District of Columbia, the name and 
street  address  (not  including  mailbox  services  or  post  office  box 
addresses) and any other contact information of the registered agent as 
required pursuant to D.C. Official Code § 42-903(b) or § 203 of this title, 
or if a registered agent is voluntarily maintained by a resident owner, the 
same information shall be provided; and
(c)
The name, street address (not including mailbox services or post office 
box addresses), email address, and telephone number of any managing 
agent of the housing accommodation, if one is maintained.
4102.7
If a housing accommodation required to be registered under this chapter contains 
one (1) or more rental units excluded from coverage under the Act pursuant to § 
205(e) of the Act (D.C. Official Code § 42-3502.05(e)), or one (1) or more rental 
units exempt from the Rent Stabilization Program pursuant to § 205(a) of the Act 
(D.C. Official Code § 205(a)), the housing provider shall identify the excluded or 
exempt rental units on the Registration/Claim of Exemption Form for the housing 
accommodation and shall specify the basis under the Act on which any exemption 
is claimed.  Any units exempted from the Rent Stabilization Program solely by 
reason of a tenant-specific subsidy shall be separately identified as exempt by an 
Amended Registration Form in accordance with § 4106.11.
4102.8
A  housing  provider  registering  under  the  Act  shall  submit  to  the  Rent 
Administrator an original and two (2) copies of each Registration/Claim of 
Exemption Form to be filed.
4102.9
If a housing provider files a Registration/Claim of Exemption Form upon the 
termination of an exemption, documentation supporting the computation of the 
allowable rent for the formerly exempt unit, in accordance with § 209 of the Act 
(D.C. Official Code § 42-3502.09) and § 4203 of this chapter, shall be filed at the 
same time as the form.
4102.10
The Rent Administrator shall accept for filing, date-stamp, and, after a review of 
the  filing,  assign  a  registration  or  exemption  number  to  each  housing 
accommodation for which the Registration/Claim of Exemption Form meets the 
Housing
14 DCMR § 4102
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
requirements of this chapter and shall promptly return to the housing provider the 
date-stamped copy of the form bearing the registration or exemption number.
4102.11
If the housing accommodation or any rental units being registered are covered by 
the Rent Stabilization Program, the registration number shall be identical to the 
housing business license number issued by the Department of Licensing and 
Consumer Protection (or the Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs, as 
applicable).  If the housing accommodation is or any rental units being registered 
are  claimed  to  be  exempt  from  the  Rent  Stabilization  Program,  the  Rent 
Administrator shall issue an exemption number in accordance with the procedures 
of the Rental Accommodations Division.
4102.12
Each Registration/Claim of Exemption Form for a housing accommodation that is 
covered by the Rent Stabilization Program shall include a computation of the 
housing provider’s rate of return for the housing accommodation, in accordance 
with § 4209; provided, that a housing provider’s registration shall not be deemed 
invalid by reason of a good faith error in the computation, nor shall supporting 
documentation be required to be filed with the Registration/Claim of Exemption 
Form.
SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 1336, 1374 (March 7, 1986); as amended by Final 
Rulemaking published at 68 DCR 012634 (December 3, 2021); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 70 
DCR 001710 (February 3, 2023).
Housing
14 DCMR § 4102
