District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
5749
MANDATORY TRANSFERS
5749.1
The DCHA may initiate Mandatory Transfers for households in order to alleviate 
certain housing conditions. The following represent examples of such conditions:
(a)
To relocate Families that are living in dwelling units with conditions that 
represent an emergency or a threat to life, health, or safety (e.g., fire, 
flood, no water) as determined by DCHA, another governmental entity, 
or as a result of a judicial proceeding;
(b)
To  place  households  in  units  of  the  correct  size  when  authorized 
members of a Family (i.e., household members listed on lease or certified 
by the DCHA) are under-occupying (assigned dwelling units are too 
large for the household) or over-occupying (assigned dwelling units are 
too small for the household) their assigned dwelling units in relation to 
the occupancy standards as set forth in Section 5709 of this chapter;
(c)
To relocate households to alleviate threat of attack by criminal elements 
as verified and documented by the DCHA Police Department or any 
other police department or law enforcement agency authorized to operate 
in the District of Columbia;
(d)
To  permit  Property  Owner  to  make  significant  repairs,  modernize, 
rehabilitate, or demolish dwelling unit(s) or apartment building(s);
(e)
To relocate households to facilitate the future rehabilitation of a dwelling 
unit;
(f)
To permit occupancy of a unit with accessibility feature by a transferring 
Family or eligible applicant with a verified need for such a unit;
(g)
To alleviate any other conditions of hardship as determined by DCHA or 
to effectuate DCHA goals and/or objectives.
5749.2
Families subject to a Mandatory Transfer shall receive a “Notice of Mandatory 
Transfer.” The Notice shall include the following:
(a)
Statement of the reason for the transfer;
(b)
Location of the new dwelling unit;
(c)
Statement regarding how the move will be financed; and
(d)
The specific date by which the move must occur.
5749.3
Families subject to a Mandatory Transfer will receive one offer of transfer. The 
Housing
14 DCMR § 5749
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
offer of transfer shall be for a dwelling unit meeting the needs of the household in 
accordance with DCHA occupancy standards and, if the household includes a 
member with a disability, a dwelling unit that has features appropriate for the 
disability or one that is adaptable.
5749.4
Applications for a transfer must be made to the Property Manager of the Family's 
RAD Covered Project, but all paperwork verification and unit assignments shall 
be made by the Office of the Director of Property Management Operations, 
except  in  the  case  of  a  Family  request  for  a  transfer  as  a  reasonable 
accommodation of a disability in which case the request will be processed by the 
Office of the ADA/504 Coordinator and the Client Placement Division.
5749.5
DCHA shall, at its sole discretion, elect to either bear the cost of a Mandatory 
Transfer by providing funds to the affected household or to move the household 
with its own resources, which may include the use of DCHA staff and/or a 
moving contractor.
5749.6
A Family that receives a written of a new dwelling unit and refuses the offer 
without good cause, shall be issued a Notice to Quit or  Cure. The good cause 
standard applicable to new admissions shall apply to transfers.
5749.7
DCHA shall relocate to a vacant, non-accessible unit, within six (6) months, the 
remaining household members occupying a unit with accessibility features after 
the death, or relocation for any other reason, of the disabled household member 
who required the accessibility features of such Unit.
5749.8
The decision to initiate a Mandatory Transfer pursuant to this chapter may be 
made only after review and approval by a supervisor in the Office of the Director 
of Property Management Operations.
SOURCE:  Final Rulemaking at 64 DCR 12956 (December 22, 2017); as amended by Final Rulemaking published 
at 66 DCR 6831 (June 7, 2019). 
Housing
14 DCMR § 5749
