District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
5755
DWELLING LEASE: LEASE PROVISIONS
5755.1
Each Dwelling Lease shall be administered in accordance with the provisions 
stipulated, and kept current at all times.
5755.2
Required Information. Each family admitted for occupancy in RAD Covered 
Project shall enter into a written dwelling lease with the Project Owner prior to 
occupancy of the leased premises. The lease must specify the following:
(a) 
The names of the Project Owner and the tenant;
(b)
The  unit  rented  (address,  apartment  number,  if  any,  and  any  other 
information needed to identify the leased contract unit);
(c) 
The term of the lease (initial term and any provision for renewal);
(d) 
The amount of the Tenant Rent to the Project Owner. The rent to the 
Project  Owner  is  subject  to  change  during  the  term  of  the  lease  in 
accordance with HUD requirement;
(e)  
A statement that the Project Owner may charge the tenant a late fee of up 
to 5% of the amount due of any amount of unpaid rent due by the tenant; 
(f) 
A specification of what services, maintenance, equipment, and utilities are 
to be provided by the Project Owner;  
(g) 
The composition of the household as approved by the Project Owner 
(family members and any DCHA-approved live-in aide). The family must 
promptly  inform  the  Project  Owner  of  the  birth,  adoption,  or  court-
awarded custody of a child. The family must request Project Owner 
approval to add any other family member as an occupant of the unit; and
(h)
HUD’s regulations in 24 CFR part 5, subpart L (Protection for Victims of 
Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, or Stalking) apply. 
5755.3
Term of Lease and Renewal.
(a)
The initial lease term must be for at least twelve (12) months. 
(b)
The lease must provide for automatic renewal after the initial term of the 
lease. The lease may provide either:
(1)
For automatic renewal for successive definite terms (e.g., month-
to-month or year-to-year); or
(2)
For automatic indefinite extension of the lease term.
Housing
14 DCMR § 5755
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
(c)
The term of the lease terminates if any of the following occurs:
(1)
The Project Owner terminates the lease for good cause;
(2)
The tenant terminates the lease;
(3)
The Project Owner and the tenant agree to terminate the lease;
(4)
DCHA terminates assistance for the family.
SOURCE:  Final Rulemaking at 64 DCR 12956 (December 22, 2017); as amended by Final Rulemaking published 
at 66 DCR 6831 (June 7, 2019). 
Housing
14 DCMR § 5755
