7604
WAITING LIST PREFERENCES
7604.1
Preferences Generally. Applicants are eligible to request and upon 
verification receive priority in selection for rental assistance if they qualify 
for certain general and limited preference categories as set forth more fully 
in this Section
7604.2
Selection. Except for Special Admissions as provided for in Subsection 
7603 of this Chapter, or the requirements of Income Targeting as set forth 
in Subsection 7602 of this Chapter, applicants shall be selected from 
DCHA HCVP and Moderate Rehabilitation Waiting Lists in accordance 
with preferences set forth in this Subsection 7604. Applications equal in 
preference under each category in Subsection 7604.3 will be maintained 
by date and time of application, and preferences for categories under 
Subsection 7604.4 will be granted to the extent of the voucher allocation 
limits specified for the category and by date and time within those limits.
7604.3
General Local Preferences. The local preferences in their order of priority 
are as follows:
(a)
Substandard Housing. The substandard preference is divided into 
three major ranking factors as further defined at Subsection 7605 
and is implemented in the following priority order.
(i)
Homeless, as set forth in subsection 7605.1 of this Chapter;
(ii)
Applicants residing in units that have been declared unfit 
for habitation as set forth in 7605.2(g) of this Chapter; and
(iii)
Applicants currently residing in units which contain one or 
more Housing Quality Standard or local housing code 
violations as set forth in 7605.2(a-f).
(b)
Involuntarily Displaced, as defined herein at Subsection 7605.3; 
and
(c)
Rent Burdened, as defined herein at Subsection 7605.4
7604.4
Limited Local Preferences. Preferences in this subsection receive priority 
to the extent of the voucher allocation authorized by the Board of 
Commissioners:
(a)
Enhancing the Supply of Affordable Housing. Applicants are 
included under this preference if the Family is an occupant of a 
property that has been financially assisted and identified as such to 
DCHA by the District of Columbia Housing Finance Agency or 
the District of Columbia Department of Housing and Community 
Development under a grant, loan, tax credit or other form of 
financial aid program that assists in the preservation or expansion 
of the supply of affordable housing in the District of Columbia. 
The aggregate number of outstanding vouchers authorized for use 
is set by the Board of Commissioners from time to time.
(b)
Improving the Quality of Affordable Housing Applicants are 
included under this preference if the Family is an occupant of a 
unit in a designated property that the District of Columbia 
government has identified to DCHA as targeted for condemnation 
due to an inability to meet District of Columbia housing codes. The 
aggregate number of outstanding vouchers authorized for use is set 
by the Board of Commissioners from time to time.
(c)
Special Needs Housing - Applicants are included under this 
preference if an applicant has been referred to DCHA by the 
Deputy Mayor's Office for Child and Family Services, including 
the DC Department of Mental Health, DC Office on Aging, or the 
DC Department of Health in order to aid the District of Columbia 
in meeting the goal of affordable housing for special needs housing 
groups in its Consolidated Plan. The number of units authorized 
for HCVP assistance under this provision is governed by approved 
public housing redevelopment or revitalization plans with 
allocations approved by the Board of Commissioners from time to 
time in connection with project-based Partnership Programs as set 
forth at Chapter 93 of this Title 14.
(d)
Preference for Fair Housing Promotion - Applicants are included 
under this preference if an applicant is part of an underserved and 
linguistically-isolated population and has been referred to DCHA 
by the Office of the Mayor of the District of Columbia in order to 
aid the District of Columbia in meeting the goal of Fair Housing 
Promotion in its Consolidated Plan. Up to 100 vouchers are 
authorized for use for this purpose.
(e)
Witness Relocation: Applicants included under this preference are 
those recommended by the DCHA Office of Public Safety. Up to 
50 vouchers per year are authorized for use for this purpose.
(f)
Permanent Supportive Housing-Applicants are included under this 
preference if an applicant is referred to DCHA by an agency of the 
District of Columbia government as an individual or family in need 
of permanent supportive housing for chronically homeless 
individuals and families with histories of homelessness. Up to Four 
Hundred and Forty-Seven (447) vouchers are authorized for this 
purpose. Twenty-Six (26 ) of the Four Hundred and Forty-Seven 
(447) vouchers allocated to this permanent supportive housing 
limited local preference were reallocated from the condemnation 
voucher preference set forth in 14 DCMR ยง 7604.4(b).  To the 
extent any of such Twenty-Six (26) vouchers are not issued and 
actually used by an applicant for housing under this permanent 
supportive housing limited local preference by January 31, 2013, 
any of such unused vouchers shall be reallocated to the 
condemnation voucher limited local preference under subsection 
7604.4(b). 
(g) 
Long Term Care Housing - Applicants are included under this 
preference if an applicant is referred to DCHA by an agency of the 
District of Columbia government as a person in need of housing 
with added wrap-around health care and in-home and community 
based services. The applicants are either people with disabilities or 
the elderly and desire to maintain their independent living. Up to 
Sixty-Five (65) vouchers are authorized for this purpose. 
SOURCE: Emergency and Proposed Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 11120 (August 20, 2004); 
as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 1153 (February 17, 2006); as 
amended by Final Rulemaking published at 55 DCR 9328 (August 29, 2008); as amended by 
Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 1597 (February 24, 2012).
