District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
6214 
NEIGHBOR TO NEIGHBOR CARE PROGRAM
6214.1 
Purpose of the Program. The District of Columbia Housing Authority (“DCHA”) 
Neighbor to Neighbor Care Program is a program designed to assist public 
housing residents participate in activities that are a benefit to themselves and the 
community. The Neighbor to Neighbor Care Program is designed to give families 
a greater ownership in their communities and to facilitate upward mobility. 
Participation for certain residents is required by HUD, participation for others is 
voluntary. The objective, whether participation is voluntary or required, is to 
facilitate residents achieving economic self-sufficiency and contributing to their 
neighbors and community.
6214.2 
Voluntary or Required Participation.
(a) 
All adult members of a household leasing a rental unit in a public housing 
development exempt or non-exempt under § 6214.3, may participate in 
any Approved Service Program as identified in § 6214.4.
(b) 
Each adult member of a household leasing a rental unit in a public housing 
development, unless exempt under Subsection 6214.5, shall, as a condition 
of their continued occupancy, contribute the equivalent of eight (8) hours 
per month, for a total of at least ninety-six (96) hours in any given year, in 
an  approved  voluntary  community  service  activity  as  specified  in  § 
6214.4.
(c) 
Political activities, including campaigning, voter registration, voting or 
getting  out  the  vote,  do  not  qualify  for  meeting  the  Participation 
Requirement specified in § 6214.2(2) above. Work that is compensated as 
employment does not qualify to meet the Participation Requirement.
6214.3 
Exemptions.
(a) 
Certain adult household members are exempt from required participation 
in the Neighbor to Neighbor Care Program if they can document that they 
are:
(1) 
Sixty-two (62) years old or older;
(2) 
Blind  or  disabled  as  determined  in  accordance  with  Federal 
regulations implementing the Social Security Act;
(3) 
The primary caretaker of an individual identified in (b) above;
(4) 
Engaged in one, or a combination of, the work activities identified 
below for at least the same number of hours per week (or total over 
Housing
14 DCMR § 6214
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
the course of a year) as specified in § 6214.2(2) above:
(A) 
Employment;
(B) 
On-the-job training;
(C) 
Job search and job readiness programs, including, but not 
limited to, registration with the Department of Employment 
Services and the DCHA Section 3 program;
(D) 
Job skills training directly related to employment;
(E) 
Vocational educational training;
(F) 
Education directly related to employment, for individuals 
who have received a high school diploma or a certificate of 
general equivalence;
(G) 
Satisfactory attendance at secondary school or in a course 
of study leading to a certificate of general equivalence;
(H) 
Provision of child care services to an individual who is 
participating  in  a  Neighbor-to-Neighbor  activity  or  an 
activity that exempts an individual from required Neighbor-
to-Neighbor activities;
(5) 
Exempt from having to engage in a work activity under a Qualified 
Assistance Program;
(6) 
A member of a family receiving assistance, under a Qualified 
Assistance Program, provided that the family has not been found 
by the administering agency to be in noncompliance with such 
program;
(b) 
DCHA shall review the exempt status of each adult family member as part 
of the recertification process.
6214.4 
Approved Service Programs.
(a) 
The Office of Resident Services shall maintain a list of approved Neighbor 
to Neighbor sponsors and activities which offer opportunities for service 
and economic and educational advancement for residents. The list shall be 
available  to  the  DCHA  City  Wide  Advisory  Board  and  all  DCHA 
Resident Councils as well as from each Property Manager.
(b) 
Additional programs and activities may be approved and added to the list 
Housing
14 DCMR § 6214
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
from time to time, as follows:
(1) 
A resident may request the addition of a Service Program to the list 
by submitting documentation from the sponsor of the Program as 
to the Program's activities and an authorized representation that it 
does not engage in political activities and that the resident will not 
be employed by the Program.
(2)
Any Resident Council or the City Wide Advisory Board may 
request the addition of a Program by submitting documentation 
about the Program as to the scope of its activities and that the 
Program is not engaged in political activities.
(c) 
Approved Service Programs may include programs and activities such as 
those listed below.
(1) 
Voluntary  Community  Service  Activities,  such  as:  Serving  in 
leadership positions in the Resident Council, District of Columbia 
City-Wide Advisory Board, the DHCA Board of Commissioners 
or the Resident Advisory Committee, but no political activities or 
voter registration activities;
(2) 
Resident Council or City-Wide Advisory Board sponsored Service 
Programs;
(3) 
Participating in DCHA sponsored community service programs, 
including  but  not  limited  to  Orange  Hat  patrols,  building 
playgrounds and landscaping events;
(4) 
Tutoring or other support program at a local public or private 
school in the resident's community;
(5) 
Participation  in  church  sponsored  programs  that  support  the 
community and individuals in the community;
(6) 
Civic and public interest organizations, such as the Boys and Girls 
Clubs of Greater Washington, United Way, AmeriCorps and Vista;
(7) 
Volunteer and support programs at a local public or non-profit 
institution, such as the public, charter or private school, Head Start, 
before or after school programs, childcare center, hospital, clinic, 
hospice, nursing home, recreation center or senior center;
(8) 
Educational Advancement Programs, such as:
(A) 
English proficiency or literacy classes;
Housing
14 DCMR § 6214
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
(B) 
English as a second language classes;
(C) 
Financial Management;
(D) 
Credit Counseling;
(E) 
Household Management; or
(F) 
Others as approved by DCHA.
6214.5 
Reporting.
(a) 
All adult family members required to participate in the Neighbor-to-
Neighbor  program  shall  provide  to  DCHA  as  part  of  the  family's 
recertification package, a signed statement by each such adult describing 
the Neighbor-to-Neighbor activities pursued since the household's last 
recertification-and certifying the hours of service provided.
(b) 
Each adult family member claiming exemption from required Neighbor-to 
Neighbor program participation according to the provisions of § 6214.3, 
above  shall  provide  to  DCHA  as  part  of  the  family's  recertification 
package:
(1)
 A  signed  statement  by  each  adult  claiming  an  exemption 
certifying either:
(A) 
A  statement  of  the  basis  of  the  exemption  under  §§ 
6214.3(a) - (c), (e), or (f) hereinabove, or
(B) 
A  description  of  the  work  activities  pursued  by  each 
exempt adult member under § 6214.3(d) hereinabove.
(c) 
DCHA may require a release from the family member authorizing DCHA 
to obtain verification of any or all information provided in the household's 
annual  report  of  Neighbor-to-Neighbor  activities  and  DCHA  may, 
subsequent  to  submission,  seek  third  party  verification  of  any  or  all 
information supporting an exemption.
(d) 
The provision of false certifications or information that cannot be verified 
by a third party shall be cause for a determination of non-compliance in 
accordance with § 6214.6 below. 
6214.6 
Compliance and noncompliance.
(a) 
At least thirty (30) days prior to the household's periodic recertification 
Housing
14 DCMR § 6214
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
date, DCHA shall determine that the head of household and all adult 
family members that are not otherwise exempt hereunder have met the 
Participation Requirement through taking part in one or more Approved 
Service Programs.
(b) 
If DCHA determines that a family member who is required to fulfill the 
Participation Requirement failed to meet the requirement, DCHA shall 
provide written notice to the family member of DCHA's determination 
which shall describe such noncompliance.
(c) 
DCHA  shall  provide  an  opportunity  for  the  head  of  household  and 
noncompliant family members to cure the non-compliance by:
(1) 
Entering into a written agreement whereby the head of household 
and/or noncompliant family member agree to a Personal Service 
Plan that provides for the hours required under § 6214.4(2) or § 
6214.5(d) above, as well as the hours that were not provided in the 
preceding year, over the next twelve (12) month period;
(2) 
Agreeing to a date certain to vacate the leased premises.
(d) 
If at the next recertification, any adult family member is still not in 
compliance, DCHA may serve a notice to quit or cure and, unless the head 
of household provides third party documentation in form satisfactory to 
DCHA that the noncompliant family member no longer resides with the 
family in the unit, then DCHA will seek judicial termination of the 
household's lease.
(e) 
A  head  of  household  may  request  a  grievance  hearing  on  DCHA's 
determination of noncompliance in accordance with the provisions of 
Chapter 63 of this title.
6214.7 
Definitions.
(a) 
“Adult” means any individual eighteen (18) years of age or older residing 
in a unit owned by DCHA.
(b) 
“Approved” means any approval’ provided by DCHA to the head of 
household and/or a family member in writing.
(c) 
“Approved Service Program” is a program approved by DCHA in 
accordance with § 6214.4 hereof.
(d) 
“Exempt” means an individual for whom participation is not required but 
only voluntary as a result of one or more of the conditions described in § 
6214.3.
Housing
14 DCMR § 6214
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
(e) 
“Family  Member” means  all  authorized  occupants  under  the  lease 
agreement with DCHA, excluding Live-in-Aides.
(f) 
“Head of Household” means the individual(s) who signed the lease 
agreement with DCHA.
(g) 
“Participation Requirement” is the service requirement specified in 
Subsection  6214.2(2)  and  met  through  participation  in  an  Approved 
Service Program.
(h) 
“Qualified Assistance Program” is a District of Columbia program 
funded under Part A of Title IV of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 
601
 
  et seq
 
 .  or under any other District of Columbia welfare program, 
including a welfare to work program.
SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 52 DCR 8626 (September 23, 2005); as amended by Final Rulemaking 
published at 63 DCR 13165 (November 18, 2016).
Housing
14 DCMR § 6214
