District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
3801  
FILING OF PLEADINGS, MOTIONS, AND OTHER 
DOCUMENTS
3801.1
All pleadings, motions, and other documents that a person wishes to submit to the 
Commission shall be filed by delivering them in person or by U.S. mail to the 
Commission’s staff at One Judiciary Square, 441 4th Street, N.W., Suite 1140B 
North, Washington, D.C. 20001, by email attachment if authorized by the Clerk 
pursuant to § 3801.10, or as otherwise directed by the Clerk or by order of the 
Commission.
3801.2
All pleadings, motions, or other documents shall be deemed filed when received 
by the Commission’s staff during its regular business hours.
3801.3
All pleadings, motions, and other documents filed with the Commission shall be 
promptly date-stamped by the Commission’s staff and entered into the 
Commission’s daily log.
3801.4
The Commission’s daily log shall be available for public inspection.
3801.5
The Clerk may reject a filing that does not comply with this section.  The receipt 
of a pleading, motion, or other document by the Commission’s staff that is not 
timely or that does not comply with the filing requirements of this chapter shall 
not constitute a waiver of those requirements, and any such pleading or document 
may be rejected later by the Commission. 
3801.6
Unless otherwise required by rule or by order of the Commission, only one (1) 
copy of a pleading, motion, or other document shall be required when filing with 
the Commission.  A filing party may provide an additional copy to be date-
stamped and returned to the filing party; provided, that if the filing is made by 
mail, the party shall include a self-addressed, postage-paid envelope for the return 
copy.
3801.7
All pleadings, motions, and other documents filed by a party shall be served on 
the opposing party or parties prior to or at the same time as filed with the 
Commission and shall contain proof of service as required by § 3803.7.
3801.8
No fees shall be charged for the filing of any papers with the Commission.
3801.9
Any forms that are designed to be filed by parties with the Commission and that 
may be provided at the Commission’s offices or on its website are only for 
illustration purposes for style and basic content; use of a form is not required and 
does not guarantee that a filing will be found legally sufficient by the 
Commission. 
3801.10
Pleadings, motions, or other documents may be filed by email attachment as 
follows:
Housing
14 DCMR § 3801
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
(a)
All email attachments shall be in Portable Document Format (“.pdf” file 
type) or Microsoft Word format (“.doc” or “.docx” file types) and, without 
modification, shall comply with the formatting requirements in § 3801.12 
when printed;
(b)
A  party  may  file  by  email  attachment  without  prior  authorization; 
provided, that the Clerk may, in his or her discretion, revoke permission of 
any person to file by email attachment with three (3) business days’ notice 
to the person, by U.S. mail or email; 
(c)
Any party that files a pleading, motion, or other document by email 
attachment shall be deemed to consent to electronic service from the 
Commission and any other party for the purposes of § 3803.3(c);
(d)
For the purpose of documenting receipt, the Clerk shall make a copy of the 
email to which the filing is attached as part of the record of the case for 
which it is filed, but nothing in the body of the email shall be considered 
part of the filing;
(e)
An email received outside the Commission’s regular business hours shall 
be deemed filed at the start of the next day that the Commission is open 
for public business;
(f)
A party filing by email accepts the risk that an email or attachment may be 
delayed or disrupted by technical failure or defect and may not be properly 
filed; and
(g)
All filings by email attachment shall be sent to rhc.clerk@dc.gov.
3801.11
No pleadings, motions, or other documents may be filed by fax.
3801.12
All pleadings, motions, and other documents shall be formatted as follows:
(a)
Typed or printed in black ink, with a font size of twelve (12) points, with 
no less than one-inch (1”) margins, on eight and one half-inch (8.5”) by 
eleven-inch (11”) inch white paper; 
(b)
No longer than forty (40) pages, excluding relevant supporting exhibits;
(c)
Supporting exhibits, if filed, shall be provided in the original format but 
shall be reproduced on eight and one half-inch (8.5”) by eleven-inch (11”) 
inch white paper; and 
(d)
On request of the filing party or on its own initiative, the Commission 
may, in its discretion, waive the requirements of this subsection.
Housing
14 DCMR § 3801
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
3801.13
All pleadings, motions, and other documents shall contain the following:
(a)
The name, address, and telephone number of the party filing the pleading, 
motion, or other document, District of Columbia Bar number, if 
applicable, and the party’s email address if the party has consented to 
service by email in accordance with § 3803.3(c);
(b)
The Rental Accommodations Division, Office of Administrative Hearings, 
or Commission case numbers;
(c)
The signature of the party, the party’s attorney, or the other person 
authorized to represent the party, which may be by conformed signature 
(“/s/”) in an email attachment if the person signing retains a signed copy 
and makes the signed copy available to the Commission or any other party 
upon request;
(d) 
The signatory’s address, telephone number, and email address (if the party 
has consented to email service in accordance with § 3803.3(c)); and
(e)
Proof of service as required by § 3803.7.
3801.14
Any changes in the name, address, email address, or telephone number of the 
parties or their representatives shall be filed with the Commission within ten (10) 
days of the change.  Opposing parties must be served with notice of the change in 
the manner prescribed in § 3803.7.
3801.15
By signing a pleading, motion, or other document filed with the Commission, a 
person certifies that, to the best of the person’s knowledge, information, and 
belief, formed after an inquiry reasonable under the circumstances:
(a)
The pleading, motion, or other document is not being filed for any 
improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or 
needless increase in the cost of litigation;
(b)
Any factual assertions therein are true; and
(c)
The legal contentions therein are warranted by existing law or by a non-
frivolous argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing 
law or the establishment of new law.
SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 1336-37  (March 7, 1986); as amended by Final 
Rulemaking published at 68 DCR 012634 (December 3, 2021); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 70 
DCR 001710 (February 3, 2023).
Housing
14 DCMR § 3801
