District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
5402 
METHODS OF VERIFICATION
5402.1 
In order of priority, the forms of verification that DCHA shall use are:
(a) 
Up-front Income Verification (UIV) whenever available;
(b) 
Third-party Written Verification;
(c) 
Third-party Written Verification Forms;
(d) 
Third Party Oral Verification; and
(e) 
Self-Certification.
5402.2 
UIV shall be used to the extent that these systems are available to DCHA. UIV is 
an automatic form of third-party verification.
5402.3 
Current UIV Resources at DCHA are:
(a) 
HUD's Enterprise Income Verification (EIV) system;
(b) 
The Work Number;
(c) 
Department of Human Services;
(d) 
Department of Employment Services; and
(e) 
Child Support Enforcement.
5402.4 
DCHA shall use HUD's EIV system as a third-party source to verify Family 
member  employment  and  income  information  during  periodic  and  interim 
recertification of Family composition and income, and shall not require the 
Family to provide information already available through the EIV system. The 
reports shall be retained in the participant file with the appropriate transaction.
5402.5 
EIV reports shall constitute third party verification when the Family does not 
dispute the income sources and it is supplemented with participant provided 
documents. EIV may not be used to calculate anticipated wage income; it shall 
only be used as a verification of the employment income source.
5402.6 
If the Family does not dispute the income source, DCHA shall use participant 
provided documents to anticipate annual income.
5402.7 
DCHA shall attempt another form of third party verification in the following 
circumstances:
Housing
14 DCMR § 5402
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
(a) 
The Family disputes income source in EIV;
(b)
Additional information is required as determined by DCHA; and
(c) 
In cases of absent Family members and approved requests for reasonable 
accommodations.
5402.8 
When DCHA is unable to obtain verification through a UIV source, DCHA shall 
make at least two (2) attempts to obtain third-party verification before using 
another form of verification.
5402.9 
DCHA shall seek third-party verification using a combination of written and oral 
requests to verification sources. Information received orally from third parties 
may be used either to clarify information provided in writing by the third party or 
as independent verification when written third-party verification is not received in 
a timely fashion.
5402.10 
DCHA shall consider documentation provided by the Family to be written third 
party verification if the documentation is:
(a) 
Original documentation generated by a third party source;
(b) 
Dated  within  sixty  (60)  days  preceding  the  date  of  the  periodic 
recertification or interim adjustment; and
(c) 
If pay stubs, they are consecutive and dated within thirty (30) days of 
submission.
5402.11 
DCHA may mail, fax, e-mail, or hand deliver third-party written verification 
requests and shall accept third-party responses using any of these methods:
(a) 
DCHA shall send a written request for verification to each required source 
and give the source ten (10) business days to respond in writing;
(b) 
If a response has not been received by the eleventh business day, DCHA 
may request third-party oral verification;
(c) 
A record of each attempt to contact the third-party source (including no-
answer calls) and all contacts with the source shall be documented in the 
file. When DCHA uses oral third party verification a “Document Viewed 
or Person Contacted” form shall be filled out by the staff person; 
(d) 
When  any  source  responds  orally  to  the  initial  written  request  for 
verification DCHA shall accept the oral response but shall also request 
that the source complete and return any verification forms that were 
Housing
14 DCMR § 5402
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
provided;
(e) 
If a third party agrees to confirm in writing the information provided 
orally, DCHA shall wait no more than five (5) business days for the 
information to be provided. If the information is not provided by the sixth 
business  day,  DCHA  shall  use  any  information  provided  orally  in 
combination with the information provided by the Family; or
(f) 
DCHA shall determine that third-party verification is not available when 
there is a service charge for verifying an asset or expense and the Family 
has original documents that provide the necessary information. DCHA 
shall  document  in  the  Family  file  the  reason  that  the  third-party 
verification was not available and shall place a photocopy of the original 
document(s) in the Family file.
5402.12 
If DCHA determines that third-party verification is not available or not required, 
DCHA shall use information provided by the Family as verification.
5402.13 
DCHA may also review documents when necessary to help clarify information 
provided by third parties. In such cases DCHA shall document in the file how 
DCHA arrived at a final conclusion about the income or expense to include in its 
calculations.
5402.14 
DCHA shall accept a self-certification from a Family as verification of assets 
disposed of for less than fair market value.
5402.15 
DCHA shall only review documents in lieu of requesting third-party verification 
when the market value of an individual asset or an expense is less than ten 
thousand dollars ($10,000) annually and the Family has original documents that 
support the declared amount.
5402.16 
Any documents used for verification shall be the original (not photocopies), if 
available,  and  shall  be  dated  within  one  hundred  eighty  (180)  days  of  the 
interview date, except tax returns which can be dated within three hundred sixty 
five (365) days of the interview and may not be original.
5402.17 
The documents shall not be damaged, altered or in any way illegible. Print-outs 
from web pages are considered original documents. A DCHA staff member who 
views the original document shall make a photocopy.
5402.18 
DCHA  may  reject  any  income  documentation  for  reasons  allowed  by  the 
administrative plan or HUD.
5402.19 
When information cannot be verified by a third party or by review of documents, 
Family members shall be required to submit self-certifications attesting to the 
accuracy of the information they have provided to DCHA.
Housing
14 DCMR § 5402
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
5402.20 
DCHA may require a Family to certify through a sworn statement that a Family 
member does not receive a particular type of income or benefit.
5402.21 
The self-certification shall be made in a format acceptable to DCHA and shall be 
signed by the Family member whose information or status is being verified. All 
self-certifications shall be signed in the presence of a DCHA representative or 
shall be notarized.
SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 7819 (June 29, 2012); as amended by Final Rulemaking 
published at 63 DCR 13165 (November 18, 2016).
Housing
14 DCMR § 5402
