District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
9806  
AYBL PROGRAM ELIGIBILITY DETERMINATION
9806.1 
Only AYBL Applicant families who are determined eligible and successful in 
being selected in the appropriate lottery will be placed on an AYBL Site-based 
Transfer Waiting List(s) for which the family has chosen to be listed.
9806.2 
AYBL  Family  will  be  selected  without  regard  to  race,  color,  religion,  sex, 
handicap, familial status, or national origin.
9806.3 
The DCHA shall consider an AYBL Applicant Family eligible for participation in 
the AYBL program if the AYBL Applicant Family meets the following criteria:
(a) 
Is a current resident in a DCHA subsidized conventional public housing 
unit, in a mixed finance unit subsidized by an Annual Contributions 
Contract, or is currently in the selection pool;
(b) 
Can demonstrate at least one (1) year of timely rental payment history 
with DCHA or in the private market;
(c) 
Bedroom size requirement meets the unit composition of the Reward 
Property and established DCHA Occupancy Standards of this chapter;
(d) 
Income eligible: minimum earned income of the potential borrower/co-
borrower or renter of no less than thirty-two thousand dollars ($32,000) 
from employment or in the case where the potential borrower/co-borrower 
or renter is elderly and/or disabled certain unearned income (for example, 
SSI, SSDI, pension payments, etc.) may be counted toward the thirty-two 
thousand dollars ($32,000) minimum. DCHA may from time to time 
change the minimum income eligibility requirement.
(e) 
The family may not include any person who has held an ownership 
interest in a residence during the three (3) years prior to commencement in 
AYBL, except as follows:
(1) 
Equitable interest in a property under the terms of a lease-purchase 
agreement prior to exercise of the purchase option;
(2) 
An individual who is now single, but had previously owned a 
home with his or her former spouse even within the three (3) year 
period;
(3) 
A  household  in  which  a  family  member  is  a  person  with  a 
disability, if homeownership assistance is needed as a reasonable 
accommodation; and
(4) 
A family that owns or is acquiring shares in a cooperative.
Housing
14 DCMR ยง 9806
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
(f) 
Be a DCHA resident in Good Standing:
(1) 
Timely completion of periodic and interim recertifications;
(2) 
No instances of unreported income;
(3) 
No  current  debt  owed  (i.e.,  rent,  excess  utility  charges, 
maintenance charges, etc.) to DCHA, federally funded housing 
program, and any court or in-house repayment agreements must be 
paid off prior to application to the AYBL program;
(4) 
No  more  than  four  (4)  late  rental  payments,  in  either  public 
housing or the private market, within the twelve (12) months prior 
to approval of an AYBL application provided that the payment is 
received within the month that the rent is charged. For other 
charges (i.e., excess utility charges, maintenance charges, etc.) 
payment must have been made within thirty (30) days of the date 
of the charge;
(5) 
Passed scheduled DCHA inspections that were conducted in the 
unit within the past twelve (12) months from the date of AYBL 
application submission;
(6) 
No legal actions for non-curable violations of the lease within the 
last five (5) years at the time of AYBL application submission;
(7) 
No repeated breaches of other terms of the Lease by the Lessee(s) 
or  any  household  member  identified  in  the  Public  Housing 
dwelling lease; 
(8) 
Pass a separate DCHA AYBL Home Visit inspection;
(9) 
Pass a criminal background check that will be conducted on all 
household members who are eighteen (18) years of age or older 
pursuant to 14 DCMR ยง 6109.
9806.4 
At the time a unit offer is made, the family must continue to be in compliance 
with the eligibility requirements of the program and the qualifying bedroom size 
based on their current family composition. If the family is determined not to 
require the bedroom size for which they were initially placed on the waiting list, 
the family will be placed at the bottom of the waiting list for the appropriate 
bedroom size if such a bedroom size exists at the property. If the family is 
determined to be ineligible, they will be removed from the waiting list.
(a) 
While on an AYBL Site-based Transfer Waiting List, applicants will be 
Housing
14 DCMR ยง 9806
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
responsible  for  reporting  any  changes  to  income  and  household 
composition to DCHA;
(b) 
When  an  AYBL  Family  has  been  on  an  AYBL  Site-based  Transfer 
Waiting List for more than one (1) year prior to a unit coming available at 
a Rewards Property, DCHA will update the screening information to 
determine if the family is still eligible before assigning the family an 
available unit;
(c) 
If the family is determined to be no longer eligible for the AYBL program, 
DCHA will notify the family in writing. The notification will include the 
reason for the ineligibility determination.
9806.5 
The AYBL Family will be required to execute a Contract of Participation and the 
ITSP form within fourteen (14) calendar days of notification of availability of a 
Rewards Property unit.
9806.6 
Once the Contract of Participation has been executed, the AYBL Family must 
execute the Dwelling Lease and move into the Rewards Property unit, within ten 
(10) calendar days of a Rewards Property unit becoming available. The AYBL 
Family is responsible for relocation costs.
SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 58 DCR 2460, 2461 (March 18, 2011); as amended by Final Rulemaking 
published at 61 DCR 1467 (February 21, 2014); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 63 DCR 13165 
(November 18, 2016).
Housing
14 DCMR ยง 9806
