District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
3829 
SETTLEMENTS, STIPULATIONS, AND MEDIATION
3829.1
An appeal, any issue in an appeal, or any liability or remedy under the Act may be 
resolved or disposed of by settlement, stipulation, or other agreement.  This may 
occur in cases on appeal before the Commission at any time before the issuance of 
a final decision and order.
3829.2
A settlement, stipulation, or other agreement may be reached through the written 
consent of any or all affected parties, including a mediated agreement reached 
through mediation proceedings offered by a designated member the 
Commission’s staff.
3829.3
Mediation is a process of assisted, informal negotiation which uses a neutral third 
party, a mediator, to aid the parties in exploring the possibility of settlement.  No 
party may be compelled to accept a settlement or other resolution of a dispute in 
mediation.
3829.4
At any time during case proceedings, the Commission may, on its own or by 
request of any party, refer a case for mediation to a designated member of its 
staff, who shall be an attorney, to act as a mediator for the parties to an appeal by 
the following procedure:
(a)
The Commission shall serve a notice to all parties offering the opportunity 
for mediation, and shall provide the parties thirty (30) days to respond;
(b)
Upon the receipt of a response from all parties, if more than one party 
agrees to mediation, the designated member of the Commission’s staff 
who will serve as the mediator shall schedule a mediation session with the 
advice of all participating parties; and
(c)
A party agreeing to mediation may request to reschedule a mediation 
session at least ten (10) days before it is scheduled for good cause shown.
3829.5
If the Commission has received the certified record of a case on appeal, it may, by 
motion of a party or on its own initiative, grant a continuance of all briefing, 
hearings, or other argument of the appeal, and may defer the issuance of a final 
decision and order, while mediation proceedings are pending.
3829.6
A member of the Commission’s staff who serves as a mediator may speak 
privately with any party or any representative during the mediation process, and 
any communications made in the mediation process by or to the designated 
mediator shall not constitute ex parte communications under § 3818.
3829.7
No Commissioner shall act as a mediator between parties to an appeal before the 
Commission.
Housing
14 DCMR § 3829
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
3829.8
Mediation proceedings conducted by the designated member of the Commission’s 
staff shall be confidential, closed to the public, and not recorded in any manner, 
with or without the consent of the parties.  No statements during a mediation 
proceeding or any documents prepared exclusively for a mediation proceeding 
shall become part of the record of an appeal or be admissible in any adjudication 
under the Act.  The designated member of the Commission’s staff who acts as a 
mediator shall not disclose any information learned from his or her participation 
and shall be screened from internal deliberations on the case.
3829.9
Parties agreeing to participate in mediation provided by the Commission’s staff 
shall negotiate in good faith towards resolution of the appeal or an issue on 
appeal, and any representative appearing at mediation must have authority from 
the party to resolve the case or issues within the scope of the mediation.  
Mediation proceedings may be terminated for failure of one or more parties to 
comply with this subsection.
3829.10
Notwithstanding § 3829.8, a mediator may report, without elaboration, to the 
Commission:
(a)
Whether the parties reached an agreement; and, if not, 
(b)
Whether he or she believes further mediation would be productive.
3829.11
A settlement, stipulation, or other agreement, including a mediated agreement, 
that contains terms for the approval of a rent adjustment for which administrative 
approval is required under the Rent Stabilization Program, as specified in § 4204, 
shall be filed with the Commission by the appellant within five (5) days of its 
execution as an attachment to a motion for the Commission to dismiss the appeal, 
dismiss an issue on appeal, or accept any stipulation.  Any adjustment to the rent 
charged for a rental unit pursuant to a settlement agreement shall be timely filed 
with the Rental Accommodations Division in accordance with § 4205.
3829.12
An agreement required to be filed with the Commission by § 3829.11 shall be 
made a part of the record of the case, notwithstanding any terms of the agreement 
requiring confidentiality or nondisclosure.
3829.13
The Commission shall review all settlements, stipulations, or other agreements 
filed pursuant to § 3829.11 to ensure that the interests of all parties are protected, 
in consideration of:
(a)
The extent to which the settlement enjoys support among the affected 
Tenants;
(b)
The potential for finally resolving the dispute;
(c)
The fairness of the proposal to all affected persons;
Housing
14 DCMR § 3829
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
(d)
The potential saving of litigation costs to the parties; and 
(e)
The difficulty of arriving at prompt final evaluation of merits given 
complexity of the law and the delays inherent in administrative and 
judicial processes.
3829.14
If the Commission determines that a settlement, stipulation, or other agreement 
meets the requirements of § 3829.13, the Commission may issue an order 
dismissing the appeal or issue on appeal.
3829.15
Any order provided under this section may be issued by a single Commissioner.
SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 68 DCR 012634 (December 3, 2021).
Housing
14 DCMR § 3829
