District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
3831 
RULEMAKING
3831.1
The Commission, on its own initiative, as required by law, or based on a request 
by any person, agency, or association, may issue, amend, or rescind any rules 
under the Act by publication in accordance with § 105 of the District of Columbia 
Administrative Procedures Act, effective October 21, 1968 (82 Stat. 1206; D.C. 
Official Code § 2-505), and the rules of the Office of Documents and 
Administrative issuances, 1 DCMR § 300, et seq. 
3831.2
Any person, agency, or association may request that the Commission promulgate 
any rule(s) by filing a written petition with the Commission in accordance with 
§ 3801, except that no specific form or content shall be required of a petition for 
rulemaking, and § 3812 shall not apply to any matter related to a petition for 
rulemaking.  Petitions for rulemaking are encouraged to include, as relevant:
(a)
Citation to and quotation of any existing rule proposed to be modified;
(b)
Proposed text for any new or modified rule, which may be in markup form 
of any existing rule;
(c)
Citation to and quotation of any provision of approved or enacted 
legislation that authorizes or necessitates the proposed change(s), which 
may include relevant portions of the legislative history;
(d)
Citation to and quotation of any decision of the Commission or the District 
of Columbia Court of Appeals that is applicable to the subject matter of 
the proposed rule(s), or a decision of any other court, tribunal, or agency 
that has authoritatively or persuasively addressed a relevant issue, 
including whether the decision would be superseded by the proposed 
rule(s); 
(e)
Description of any particular occurrence, pattern, or practice by housing 
providers, tenants, or agencies that demonstrates a need for rulemaking by 
the Commission; and
(f)
The interest of and anticipated effect on the person, agency, or association, 
or any class of persons whose interests are being represented, in the 
subject matter of the proposed rule(s).
3831.3
No person, agency, or association shall file a petition for rulemaking that 
constitutes or creates the appearance of an ex parte communication that is 
prohibited by § 3818.
3831.4
The Commission shall not be required to take any action based on a petition filed 
under this section, and no person, agency, or association shall have a right to a 
response by the Commission. 
Housing
14 DCMR § 3831
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
3831.5
The Commission may issue a request for clarification of any petition for 
rulemaking or may issue a statement of reasons for denying any petition.  A 
request or statement under this subsection shall be sent to the petitioner and made 
publicly available by the Commission.  No request, statement, or failure to act by 
the Commission regarding a petition for rulemaking shall constitute a binding or 
advisory opinion on any matter, and no right of appeal shall be created by the 
denial of or failure to act on a petition.  In the exercise of its discretion to issue, or 
not, a request or statement regarding a petition, the Commission shall use all 
reasonable care to avoid the appearance of prejudging any issue raised by a 
pending appeal before it.
3831.6
Proposed, final, or emergency rules to be published by the Commission shall be 
adopted by a majority vote of a quorum of the Commission in a public meeting on 
the record in accordance with § 3800.
3831.7
Comments on any proposed rulemaking published by the Commission shall be 
filed in accordance with the instructions provided in the published notice.
3831.8
The Commission shall maintain a publicly available record of each petition for 
rulemaking received, of any response issued to a petition, and of all comments 
received in response to a proposed rulemaking published by the Commission.  If 
the Commission, in its discretion, proposes any rule based on a petition it has 
received, the relevant petition(s) shall be appended to the notice of proposed 
rulemaking.
3831.9
The Chair of the Commission may designate any member(s) of its staff or any 
single Commissioner to engage in informal discussions with any person, agency, 
or association regarding the substance of a petition for rulemaking or comments 
received in response to a proposed rulemaking.  Disclosure of the occurrence or 
substance of any informal discussions shall not be required as part of the publicly 
available record of a rulemaking but shall not be prohibited by any confidentiality 
agreement.
3831.10
Nothing in this section shall limit the Commission’s obligations of disclosure or 
limit or waive any applicable exemptions from disclosure under the Freedom of 
Information Act, effective March 29, 1977 (D.C. Law 1-96; D.C. Official Code 
§ 2-531 et seq.), including but not limited to the deliberative process privilege.
SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 68 DCR 012634 (December 3, 2021).
Housing
14 DCMR § 3831
