District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
6099
DEFINITIONS
6099.1
For purposes of Chapters 60 - 64 of Title 14 of the District of Columbia 
Municipal Regulations, the following definitions shall apply.
Actual and imminent threat refers to a physical danger that is real, would occur 
within an immediate time frame, and could result in death or serious 
bodily harm. In determining whether an individual would pose an actual 
and imminent threat, the factors to be considered include: the duration of 
the risk, the nature and severity of the potential harm, the likelihood that 
the potential harm will occur, and the length of time before the potential 
harm would occur.
Affiliated individual, with respect to an individual, means:
(a) 
A spouse, parent, brother, sister, or child of that individual, or a 
person to whom that individual stands in the place of a parent or 
guardian (for example, the affiliated individual is a person in the 
care, custody, or control of that individual); or
(b) 
Any individual, tenant, or lawful occupant living in the household 
of that individual.
Annual Income -- the anticipated total income from all sources received by the 
head of household and spouse (even if temporarily absent) and by each 
additional member of the family, including all net income derived from 
assets, for the twelve (12) month period following the effective date of 
initial determination or reexamination of income, exclusive of income that 
is temporary, nonrecurring or sporadic, and exclusive of certain other 
types of income specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this definition.
(a) 
Annual Income includes, but is not limited to, the following:
(1) 
The full amount, before any payroll deduction, of wages 
and salaries, overtime pay, commissions, fees, tips, and 
bonuses, and other compensation for personal services;
(2) 
The net income from operation of a business or profession. 
Expenditures for business expansion or amortization of 
capital indebtedness shall not be used as deductions in 
determining net income.  An allowance for depreciation of 
assets used in a business or profession may be deducted, 
based on straight line depreciation, as provided in Internal 
Revenue Service regulations.  Any withdrawal of cash or 
assets from the operation of a business or profession will 
be included in income, except to the extent the withdrawal 
Housing
14 DCMR § 6099
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
is reimbursement of cash or assets invested in the operation 
by the family;
(3) 
Interest, dividends, and other net income of any kind from 
real or personal property greater than $1,000 per year. 
Expenditures for amortization of capital indebtedness shall 
be  used  as  deduction  in  determining  net  income.  All 
allowance for depreciation is permitted only as authorized 
in paragraph (a)(2) of this definition. Net income from 
assets will be included in Annual Income for the purposes 
of this title if net income from assets exceeds $1,000. 
Notwithstanding  this  threshold,  all  assets  with  a  value 
greater  than  $15,000  must  be  reported  annually. 
Regardless of the value of the assets, imputed income from 
assets will not be included in Annual Income.
Bifurcate means to divide a lease as a matter of law, subject to the permissibility 
of such process under the requirements of the applicable HUD-covered 
program  and  State  or  local  law,  such  that  certain  tenants  or  lawful 
occupants can be evicted or removed and the remaining tenants or lawful 
occupants  can  continue  to  reside  in  the  unit  under  the  same  lease 
requirements or as may be revised depending upon the eligibility for 
continued occupancy of the remaining tenants and lawful occupants.
Complete Applications – A complete application shall be considered complete if 
it includes the Applicant’s name, date of birth, social security number, 
address, preference, income, and waiting list(s) selection. 
Dating violence means violence committed by a person:
(a) 
Who is or has been in a social relationship of a romantic or 
intimate nature with the victim; and
(b) 
Where the existence of such a relationship shall be determined 
based on a consideration of the following factors:
(1) 
The length of the relationship;
(2) 
The type of relationship; and
(3) 
The frequency of interaction between the persons involved 
in the relationship.
Domestic violence includes felony or misdemeanor crimes of violence committed 
by a current or former spouse or intimate partner of the victim, by a person 
with whom the victim shares a child in common, by a person who is 
Housing
14 DCMR § 6099
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
cohabitating with or has cohabitated with the victim as a spouse or 
intimate partner, by a person similarly situated to a spouse of the victim 
under the domestic or family violence laws of the jurisdiction receiving 
grant monies, or by any other person against an adult or youth victim who 
is protected from that person's acts under the domestic or family violence 
laws of the jurisdiction. 
The term “spouse or intimate partner of the victim” includes a person 
who is or has been in a social relationship of a romantic or intimate nature 
with the victim, as determined by the length of the relationship, the type of 
the relationship, and the frequency of interaction between the persons 
involved in the relationship.
First Available Unit - An Applicant with an application date earlier than an 
Applicant on a Site-Based Waiting List at a development with an available 
unit shall be selected from the waiting list for a unit at that property. For 
example, an eligible Applicant with an application date of March 1, 2008 
who has selected the “First Available Unit Option” shall be selected from 
the waiting list before any eligible Applicant on the Site-Based Waiting 
List with an application date and time after March 1, 2008. (This assumes 
that the selection is for the appropriate bedroom size and any other 
relevant unit features).
Safe unit refers to a unit that the victim of domestic violence, dating violence, 
sexual assault, or stalking believes is safe. 
Sexual assault means any nonconsensual sexual act proscribed by Federal, tribal, 
or State law, including when the victim lacks capacity to consent.
Site-Based Waiting Lists - An Applicant who has applied to be placed on the 
Site-Based Waiting List at multiple developments will be selected from 
those respective lists by date and time of application. (This assumes that 
the selection is for the appropriate bedroom size and any other relevant 
unit features).
Stalking means engaging in a course of conduct directed at a specific person that 
would cause a reasonable person to:
(a) 
Fear for the person's individual safety or the safety of others; or
(b) 
Suffer substantial emotional distress.
VAWA means the Violence Against Women Act of 1994, as amended (42 USC 
13925 and 42 USC 14043e et seq.).
Housing
14 DCMR § 6099
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 7973, 7985-86 (December 26, 1986);  as amended by Final 
Rulemaking published at 39 DCR 2291 (April 3, 1992); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 45 DCR 
4915, 4916 (July 24, 1998);  as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 603 (January 22, 1999), 
incorporating by reference the text of Proposed Rulemaking published at 45 DCR 7913, 7914 (November 6, 1998); 
as amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 53 DCR 9290 (November 17, 2006); as amended by Final 
Rulemaking published at 54 DCR 12303 (December 23, 2007); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 56 
DCR 2720 (April 10, 2009); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 62 DCR 10416 (July 31, 2015); as 
amended by Final Rulemaking published at 65 DCR 13209 (November 30, 2018). 
Housing
14 DCMR § 6099
