District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
6111
TENANT ASSIGNMENT
6111.1 
When an Applicant has been deemed eligible and a unit has become available for 
offer,  DCHA  shall  review  the  Applicant's  file  to  determine  whether  the 
information is current and correct. Information shall be considered current if it 
was verified by DCHA within no more than one hundred eighty (180) days prior 
to tenant assignment.
6111.2 
If updated information is required, the Applicant shall be required to submit 
information in accordance with Section 6106 of this chapter before a unit is 
offered.
6111.3 
Eligible Applicants shall be offered an appropriate unit, when available, consistent 
with the priorities and requirements of this title.
6111.4 
Unit offers shall be made to Applicants with the earlier application date and time 
regardless of whether the Applicant selected the First Available Waiting List or a 
Site-Based Waiting List for the particular site selected. 
6111.5 
Suitable vacancies arising at a given time at any location shall be offered to the 
selected Applicant first in sequence at the time of vacancy; provided, that referrals 
may be made out of sequence in the following situations:
(a) 
For  Applicants  with  a  preference  or  in  the  Emergency  Category, 
assignments shall be made to units in sequence based upon the date and 
time of application, as indicated in Section 6105;
(b) 
For low income families, pursuant to Section 6105;
(c)
For disabled families, pursuant to Section 6112; and
(d) 
For  comprehensive  modernization  properties  and  new  developments, 
pursuant to Section 6113.
6111.6 
Each Applicant shall be assigned an appropriate unit in sequence based upon the 
date and time of application, suitable type or size or unit, preference, consistent 
with the objectives of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and applicable 
HUD regulations and requirements.
6111.7
Selection from the First Available Waiting List.    
(a)
Eligible applicants with the earliest application date and time selecting a 
First Available Unit shall be offered the next available unit that matches 
the family bedroom size and required needs regardless of the development 
Housing
14 DCMR ยง 6111
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
pursuant to this section. 
(b)
When an Applicant is offered a unit from the First Available Unit waiting 
list, DCHA shall send the Applicant an offer letter and identify the 
development where the unit is available. The Applicant must contact the 
property and view the unit within ten (10) calendar days of the offer letter. 
(c)
If the Applicant fails to show up at the appointment or refuses the unit 
offer, the Applicant shall be offered one (1) additional unit for selection. If 
the Applicant refuses the second unit offer, the Applicant shall be removed 
from the public housing waiting list(s) but shall remain on the Housing 
Choice Voucher Program and Moderate Rehabilitation Program waiting 
lists.  
(d)
If an Applicant fails to show up at an appointment or refuses a unit offer, 
DCHA shall offer the unit to the next Applicant on the Public Housing 
Waiting Lists in accordance with this section.  
(e)
If the Applicant accepts an offered unit, the Applicant shall be removed 
from all Public Housing Waiting Lists but shall remain on the Housing 
Choice Voucher and Moderate Rehabilitation Waiting Lists. 
6111.8 
Selection from the Site-Based Waiting List. 
(a)
Eligible Applicants on the Site-Based Waiting List with the earliest date 
and time shall be offered the next available unit that matches the family 
bedroom size and unit characteristics pursuant to this section. 
(b)
When an Applicant is offered a unit from the Site-Based Waiting List, 
DCHA  shall  send  the  Applicant  an  offer  letter  and  identify  the 
development where the unit is available. The Applicant must contact the 
property and view the unit within ten (10) calendar days of the offer letter.
(c)
If the Applicant fails to show up at the appointment or refuses the unit 
offer, the Applicant shall be offered one (1) additional unit for selection 
at any of their selected sites when their name reaches the top of the 
waiting  list(s).   If  the  Applicant  refuses  the  second  unit  offer,  the 
Applicant shall be removed from all DCHA Public Housing Waiting 
Lists.  
Housing
14 DCMR ยง 6111
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
(d)
If an Applicant fails to show up at an appointment or refuses a unit offer, 
DCHA shall offer the unit to the next eligible Applicant on the Public 
Housing Waiting Lists in accordance with this section. 
(e)
If the Applicant accepts an offered unit, the Applicant shall be removed 
from all Public Housing Waiting Lists but shall remain on the Housing 
Choice Voucher and Moderate Rehabilitation Waiting Lists. 
6111.9 
If the Applicant is willing to accept the unit offered but is unable to move at the 
time of the offer, and presents clear evidence to DCHA's satisfaction of his or her 
inability to move, refusal of the offer shall not count as one of the number of 
allowable refusals permitted the Applicant before removing the Applicant from 
the Public Housing Waiting Lists.
6111.10 
If the Applicant presents evidence to the satisfaction of DCHA that acceptance of 
a given offer of a suitable vacancy may result in undue hardship not related to 
considerations of race, sex, color, or national origin, such as inaccessibility to 
employment, children's day care, refusal of such an offer shall not be counted as 
one of the number of allowable refusals permitted an applicant before removing 
the Applicant from the Public Housing Waiting Lists.
6111.11 
If a non-disabled family refuses to accept a vacancy in an accessible unit, the 
refusal shall not be counted as one of the allowable refusals.
6111.12 
The following requirements shall be applicable to any offered vacancies:
(a)
The unit offer shall be in writing and shall include the following: 
(1)
   Identification of the property;
(2)
   Address and phone number of the property management office; 
(3)
   The bedroom size and unit characteristics; and 
(4)
   The time to contact the property and to view the unit. 
(b)
The Applicant must contact the property in accordance with this section; 
and  
(c) 
After the Applicant has viewed the offered unit, the Applicant shall accept 
or reject the unit at that time.
Housing
14 DCMR ยง 6111
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
6111.13 
Applicants with preferences who reject two units for reasons other than those 
allowed in this section shall be removed from the public housing waiting list(s). 
If  they  are  on  the  Housing  Choice  Voucher  Program  or  the  Moderate 
Rehabilitation waiting lists, the Applicant shall be permitted to remain on the 
list(s).
6111.14 
Applicants with preferences who reject two units for reasons other than those 
allowed in section shall lose their preference provided in Subsection 6105.2 and 
shall be withdrawn from the Public Housing Waiting Lists.  If the Applicant is on 
the Housing Choice Voucher Program or the Moderate Rehabilitation waiting 
lists, the Applicant shall be permitted to remain on the list(s).
6111.15
Selection from the Housing Choice Voucher Program Waiting List. 
(a)
Applicants seeking a Housing Choice Voucher shall be placed on the 
Housing Choice Voucher Program waiting list according to the date and 
time of the application and any application preferences selected by the 
Applicant on the application pursuant to Chapter 76 of this title. 
(b)
When selecting Applicants from the waiting list for a Housing Choice 
Voucher, Applicants who have been deemed eligible shall be issued a 
voucher pursuant to Chapter 76 of this title.  
6111.16
Selection from the Moderate Rehabilitation Program Waiting List.
(a)
Applicants seeking admission to the Moderate Rehabilitation Program 
shall be placed on the Moderate Rehabilitation Program waiting list 
according to the date and time of the application, and any application 
preferences selected by the Applicant on the application pursuant to 
Chapter 76 of this title.
(b) 
When  selecting  Applicants  from  the  waiting  list  for  the  Moderate 
Rehabilitation Program, Applicants who have been deemed eligible shall 
be referred to the next available unit based on the family composition, 
pursuant Chapter 76 of this title. 
SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 7973, 7985-86 (December 26, 1986); as amended by Final 
Rulemaking published at 46 DCR 603 (January 22, 1999), incorporating by reference the text of Proposed 
Rulemaking published at 45 DCR 7913, 7914 (November 6, 1998); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 
50 DCR 5739 (July 18, 2003); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 10347 (December 5, 2003); 
as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 56 DCR 2720 (April 10, 2009); as amended by Final Rulemaking 
published at 62 DCR 10416 (July 31, 2015); as amended by  Final Rulemaking published at 64 DCR 12956 
(December 22, 2017); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 66 DCR 6831 (June 7, 2019). 
Housing
14 DCMR ยง 6111
