District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
6113
TENANT ADMISSION AND OCCUPANCY: REDEVELOPED 
AND SERVICE RICH PROPERTIES
6113.1 
Scope. 
Redeveloped Properties are mixed-finance communities owned by private entities 
which  communities  are  created  through  HOPE  VI  or  other  public  funding 
combined with private financing, which have some or all of their units assisted by 
operating funds or project-based rent subsidy payments provided by DCHA. 
Service Rich Properties may be DCHA-owned, conventional public housing or 
privately owned units assisted with operating funds provided by DCHA and 
managed by DCHA or third parties, which provide and/or oversee the delivery of 
services for residents.
6113.2 
Overview.
(a) 
Pursuant  to  the  MTW  Agreement  between  DCHA  and  the  U.S. 
Department of Housing and Urban Development, dated July 25, 2004, as 
amended  by  an  Agreement  dated  September  29,  2010,  and  as  such 
agreement may be further amended, DCHA may, notwithstanding certain 
provisions of the Housing Act of 1937 and regulations issued pursuant 
thereto, adopt local rules for the governance of its public housing and 
housing choice voucher programs. 
(b)
Accordingly, Section 6113 sets forth the regulatory framework for the 
property  based  rules  and  ongoing  oversight  or  approvals  governing: 
occupancy  and  re-occupancy;  selection  criteria;  screening  criteria; 
application  processing;  waiting  lists;  lease  provisions;  income 
determinations;  and  grievance  procedures  for  properties  officially 
designated as Redeveloped or Service Rich Properties by the DCHA 
Board of Commissioners.
(c) 
Service Rich Properties operated as District of Columbia-licensed assisted 
living residences also shall operate subject to, and in accordance with the 
requirements of the Assisted Living Residence Regulatory Act of 2000, 
effective June 24, 2000 (D.C. Law 13-127; D.C. Official Code §§ 44-
101.01  et seq. (2012 Repl.)), and regulations promulgated thereunder, 
Title 22 (Health), The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act 
of 1996 (“HIPAA”), and any other applicable local or federal regulatory 
requirements. 
6113.3 
Selection Criteria.
(a) 
The  selection  criteria,  including  all  priorities  and  preferences  for 
applicants for initial occupancy following construction and re-occupancy 
upon vacancy of units at Redeveloped or Service Rich Properties that are 
Housing
14 DCMR § 6113
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
receiving operating subsidies or project-based rent subsidy payments from 
DCHA, are those incorporated in a regulatory and operating agreement or 
RAD control agreement by and between the owner and DCHA after 
consultation with representatives of the community and former and/or 
prospective residents. These selection criteria are hereinafter referred to 
herein as the “General Selection Criteria”.
(b) 
While the General Selection Criteria may vary by property, selection and 
screening criteria for all properties shall include the mandatory federal 
standards with respect to certain types of criminal activity as specified in 
federal statute.
 
(c) 
For  UFAS-Accessible  Units,  besides  the  General  Selection  Criteria, 
occupancy of the Units shall be to a household qualified for the available 
bedroom size of the Unit and a verified need for the features of a UFAS-
Accessible Unit in the following order of priority, with date and time of 
application or transfer request where there are multiple applicants within 
any one priority:
 
(1) 
First, to a qualified returning resident who previously resided in 
one of the developments being redeveloped.
 
(2) 
Second, to a qualified applicant referred by DCHA from its list of 
households designated in 2006 for interim assistance in accordance 
with the provisions of the Amended VCA.
 
(3) 
Third, to a qualified applicant referred by DCHA from its list of 
households designated in 2007 for interim assistance in accordance 
with the provisions of the Amended VCA.
 
(4) 
Fourth, to a qualified DCHA resident on DCHA’s Transfer List;
 
(5) 
Fifth, to a qualified public housing applicant on DCHA’s Waiting 
List;
 
(6) 
Sixth, to a qualified Housing Choice Voucher.
6113.4
Application Process. 
Each property shall develop its own process for taking applications, subject to 
review and approval by DCHA.
(a)
Application forms for transferring or returning residents and applicants are 
developed by the owner for the Redeveloped Property and shall be subject 
to review and approval by DCHA.
Housing
14 DCMR § 6113
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
(b)
Completed applications for returning residents, transferring residents or 
applicants shall be accepted at the property and shall be reviewed and 
approved in accordance with the criteria approved in accordance with 
Subsection 6113.2.
(c) 
The occupancy and re-occupancy application and selection process shall 
be monitored by DCHA's Office of Asset Management.
6113.5
Waiting Lists.
(a)
Where the number of returning residents, transferring residents or new 
applicants exceeds the number of available units, applicants seeking to 
be housed at the property shall be placed on a waiting list.
(1)
Waiting lists shall be maintained by the manager of the property 
based on the date and time of application and in accordance with 
the selection criteria developed for the property and approved by 
DCHA in accordance with Subsection 6113.2; or
(2)
At certain properties, a basic eligibility determination for public 
housing shall be made by DCHA's Client Placement Division 
and eligible tenants shall be referred to the property where the 
property's selection criteria shall be applied.
(b)
A list of all properties, along with the status of each site based waiting 
list as either open or closed, shall be available from the DCHA’s Client 
Placement Division. When a property makes a determination to open its 
waiting list, notice shall be provided to the DCHA resident advisory 
board and published in the District of Columbia Register.
6113.6
Lease Terms.
(a) 
Leases for Redeveloped Properties or Service Rich Properties may be 
developed by the owner or manager, subject to the approval of DCHA for 
compliance  with  applicable  local  and  federal  provisions  as  well  as 
DCHA’s  regulations,  including  the  requirements  regarding  Special 
Supplements to Lease governed by the provisions of Subsection 6112.4 of 
Title 14.
(b)
Provisions  relating  to  rent,  rent  collection,  security  deposits,  excess 
utility charges, and such other provisions as DCHA may approve, may 
vary from the DCHA standard form of lease.
6113.7
Income Determinations. 
Housing
14 DCMR § 6113
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
Certification and recertification of income shall be performed by the manager of 
the property and monitored periodically by DCHA for compliance with applicable 
DCHA and federal regulations. At certain Service Rich Properties designated by 
DCHA, income for certification and recertification purposes may be disregarded 
for up to two (2) years of occupancy.
6113.8
Service Rich Properties – Assisted Living Residences.
(a)
Authority. HUD has authorized DCHA to operate certain of its Service 
Rich Properties as assisted living residences, as defined in the Assisted 
Living Residence Regulatory Act of 2000, effective June 24, 2000 (D.C. 
Law 13-127; D.C. Official Code §§ 44-101.01 et seq. (2012 Repl.)). 
(b)
Eligibility; Continuing Occupancy. 
(1) 
Families selected to live in a DCHA assisted living residence must 
meet assisted living-specific selection criteria, as outlined in site-
based, site-managed community-specific eligibility criteria that are 
set forth in the Management Plan for the property, which DCHA 
will make available.
(2)
Continued  occupancy  for  families  residing  at  DCHA  assisted 
living residences will be based on adherence to the programmatic 
and occupancy requirements for the specific property, as set forth 
in the Dwelling Lease, Residential Agreement, and any Individual 
Service Plan, or any addenda thereto.
(c)
Grievance Rights.
(1)
DCHA  assisted  living  residences  shall  establish  grievance 
procedures,  which  include  informal  and  formal  settlement 
procedures, (1) for all grievances arising public housing landlord 
tenant matters, that are consistent with the requirements of 24 CFR 
§§ 966.50 et seq., and (2) for all grievances arising from assisted 
living matters, including transfer, discharge and relocation, the 
Assisted Living Residence Regulatory Act of 2000, effective June 
24, 2000 (D.C. Law 13-127; D.C. Official Code §§ 44-101.01 et 
seq. (2012 Repl.)). The procedures shall be incorporated into the 
Dwelling Lease, as set forth in 24 CFR § 966.4(n), and shall be set 
forth in the Residential Agreement, pursuant to D.C. Official Code 
§ 44-106.02. 
(2)
The grievance procedures shall provide:
(A)
Informal Settlement of Grievance, as follows:
Housing
14 DCMR § 6113
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
(i)
If  a  Tenant  wishes  to  grieve  a  decision  of  the 
administrator of the assisted living residence, he or 
she  or  his  or  her  representative/surrogate  must 
request an informal conference in writing within 
four  (4)  days  of  receiving  the  decision  of  the 
administrator in writing or within four (4) days of 
any  alleged  failure  to  act  on  the  part  of  the 
administrator.
(ii)
The request for an informal hearing must include a 
description of the nature of the complaint and issue 
to be grieved. Upon request, a facility employee 
shall help the resident complete the written request.
(iii)
The administrator will provide the Tenant with a 
dated  receipt  when  the  request  for  an  informal 
conference is filed. The informal conference will be 
scheduled at a mutually agreeable time and will be 
held within two (2) days of the receipt of the request 
by the administrator.
(iv)
The Tenant may bring his or her representative/ 
surrogate and an advocate if he or she wishes. A 
Supervisor of the Administrator will preside and 
render  the  decision  resulting  from  the  informal 
conference.  A  copy  of  the  written  decision  will 
become a part of the Resident’s clinical record.
(v)
The Supervisor shall provide the decision in writing 
to the Resident within twenty four (24) hours of the 
completion  of  the  informal  conference.  The 
decision shall include a summary of the discussion, 
the  decision  regarding  the  disposition  of  the 
complaint and the specific reasons for the decision. 
The decision summary will list the names of the 
participants, and the date of the meeting. When the 
written results of the decision are delivered to the 
Resident,  they  will  include  a  description  of  the 
options  remaining  to  the  Resident,  including 
instructions on how to request a Formal Hearing.
(vi)
If the original decision is concerning a discharge, 
transfer or relocation and it is upheld, and if the 
Resident decides not to pursue a Formal Grievance 
Hearing,  the  Resident  must  comply  with  the 
decision within thirty (30) days of having received 
Housing
14 DCMR § 6113
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
the  Notice  of  Relocation,  Transfer  or  Discharge 
prepared and delivered according to the provisions 
of D.C. Official Code § 44-1003.02(a).
(B)
Formal  Grievance  Hearing  Regarding  Involuntary 
Discharge, Transfer or Relocation, as follows:
(i)
If the Resident wishes to proceed with a formal 
hearing  in  order  to  contest  the  decision  to 
involuntarily  discharge,  transfer  or  relocate  the 
Resident, the Resident, his or her representative/ 
surrogate or the Long-Term Care Ombudsman shall 
mail a written request to the Department of Health 
and deliver it to the Administrator within seven (7) 
calendar days after receiving a notice of discharge 
or transfer to another facility, or within five (5) 
calendar days after receiving a notice as described 
above, of relocation within the facility.
(ii)
If the Resident elects to request a Formal Hearing, 
the Administrator will remind the Resident that if 
the original decision is upheld, then the Resident 
will be required to leave the facility by the fifth (5th) 
calendar day following his or her notification of the 
hearing decision or before the 31st calendar day 
following his or her receipt of notice of discharge 
required by D.C. Official Code § 44-1003.02(a), 
whichever is later. If the Resident is being required 
to relocate within the facility, he or she will be 
reminded by the Administrator that this must occur 
by the eighth (8th) calendar day following his or her 
receipt of the notice to relocate or the third (3rd) 
calendar day following his or her notification of the 
hearing  decision,  whichever  is  later.  The 
Administrator  shall  provide  all  notices  required 
under this paragraph in written and oral form.
(iii)
The  Department  of  Health  will  designate  an 
appointee of the Office of Administrative Hearings 
as the Hearing Officer.
(iv)
The  Office  of  Administrative  Hearings  will 
schedule the formal hearing to occur within five (5) 
days of the request from the Resident. 
Housing
14 DCMR § 6113
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
(v)
The  Resident  may  bring  his/her  representative/ 
surrogate,  and  advocate  or  the  Long-Term  Care 
advocate to participate in the hearing.  The facility 
shall have the burden of proof unless the ground for 
the proposed discharge, transfer, or relocation is a 
prescribed change in the resident’s level of care, in 
which case the person(s) responsible for prescribing 
that change shall have the burden of proof and the 
resident shall have the right to challenge the level of 
care determination at the hearing. The Resident may 
not litigate Medicaid eligibility at the hearing.
(vi)
The Office of Administrative Hearings will provide 
the decision within seven (7) days of the completion 
of the hearing. The decision will become a part of 
the Resident’s clinical record.
 (vii)
If the original decision is upheld, the resident must 
leave the facility by the fifth (5th) calendar day after 
the receipt of the Hearing Officer’s decision or the 
thirty-first (31st) day after receiving the discharge 
notification,  whichever  is  later.  If  the  original 
decision required relocation within the facility and it 
is  upheld,  this  must  occur  before  the  third  (3rd) 
calendar day after receiving the Hearing Officer’s 
decision or by the eighth (8th) calendar day after 
having  received  the  relocation  notification, 
whichever is later. Notice shall be provided orally 
and in writing.
(viii)
If the resident prevails in contesting the notice then 
the  discharge  is  rescinded  unless  administrator 
appeals the decision.
(ix)
Failure to request a formal grievance hearing shall 
not constitute a waiver by the Resident of his or her 
right thereafter to contest the Administrator’s action 
in  disposing  of  the  complaint  in  an  appropriate 
judicial proceeding.
(x)
A decision by the Office of Administrative Hearings 
in favor of the Administrator or which denies the 
relief requested by the Resident in whole or in part 
shall not constitute a waiver of, nor affect in any 
manner whatever, any rights the Resident may have 
to  a  trial  or  judicial  review  in  any  judicial 
Housing
14 DCMR § 6113
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
proceedings, which may thereafter be brought in the 
matter.
(xi)
If the Resident chooses to take the matter to court, he 
or she must make the filing within the thirty (30)- 
day notice period. 
(xii)
A Resident may seek judicial review of any decision 
of the Office of Administrative Hearings by filing a 
petition with the Court of Appeals of the District of 
Columbia; or any decision of DCHA by filing an 
action in District of Columbia Superior Court.
(d)
Rent  Calculation  and  Rent  Collection  at  DCHA  Assisted  Living 
Residences.
(1) 
Tenant  rent  at  DCHA  assisted  living  residences  shall  be 
established as set forth at 14 DCMR § 6200, except as provided in 
subparagraphs (ii) and (iii) of this subsection. 
(2) 
So long as a Family pays any applicable assisted living program 
fees timely, as provided in the Dwelling Lease, then for purposes 
of calculating adjusted income, as defined in 14 DCMR § 6099, to 
establish tenant rent for DCHA assisted living residences, such 
assisted living program fees shall be considered medical expenses 
and shall be deducted, in full, from the Family’s annual income, as 
set forth in DCHA’s approved 2014 Moving To Work Plan. In the 
event that adjusted income is zero dollars ($0.00) or less, then rent 
shall equal zero dollars ($0.00).  Minimum rent, as defined by 14 
DCMR § 6210, for assisted living residences, if any, shall be 
established by DCHA.
(3) 
Payments or allowances to residents of DCHA assisted living 
residences, for incidental living expenses under the provisions of 
any applicable assisted living program may be excluded from 
annual income for the purpose of calculating tenant rent.
(4) 
The Dwelling Lease for DCHA assisted living residences will 
include an itemized list of all fees, how they are calculated and 
allowances or payments for incidental living expenses.
(e)
Assisted Living Residences - Resident Agreements.
(1) 
For  purposes  of  this  Section  6113,  the  term  “Residential 
Agreement” shall have the meaning and components according to 
the requirements of Section 44-106.2 of the D.C. Official Code. In 
Housing
14 DCMR § 6113
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
addition, the Resident Agreement shall set forth the terms and 
conditions  governing  participation  in  the  assisted  living 
programming  
(2)
At DCHA assisted living residences, the Resident Agreement may 
include or incorporate Individual Service Plans, as defined by D.C. 
Official Code § 44-106.04, to be completed by the participating 
household members.
(3) 
Upon execution, the Resident Agreement and related documents 
will become part of the Dwelling Lease. Participating Families 
must comply with the terms and conditions of the Dwelling Unit 
Lease  Agreement,  Addenda,  the  Resident  Agreement  and  any 
related documents.
(4) 
Failure to abide by the terms of the Resident Agreement and 
related documents shall be considered a violation of the Dwelling 
Lease Agreement.
(f)
Assisted Living Residences - Transfers.
(1) 
A request by a Family to transfer to a DCHA assisted living 
residence, in accordance with 14 DCMR § 6400, will be deemed 
“a tenant initiated transfer” request if the Family accepts the offer 
of a unit at a DCHA assisted living residence. 
(2) 
If a Family, which resides in a DCHA assisted living residence, no 
longer wishes to participate in the programing available at the 
assisted living residence, but remains compliant with the Dwelling 
Lease, then the Family will receive up to two (2) transfer offers of 
Conventional Public Housing units, in writing.
(3) 
A Family residing in a DCHA assisted living residence unit that 
receives a written offer to transfer into a new dwelling unit may 
refuse the offer on the basis of evidence, satisfactory to DCHA, 
that acceptance of the offered unit would cause undue hardship, as 
set forth in Subsection 6111.9, and such refusal shall not count 
against one of tenant’s allowable offers under paragraph ii of this 
subsection.
(4)
If a Family and refuses a second offered unit without good cause, 
then the Family may elect to stay at the assisted living residence, 
and shall comply with all applicable requirements, as set forth in 
the  Dwelling  Lease,  or  DCHA  shall  initiate  discharge  and 
termination processes, in accordance with Subsection 6113.8(h). 
Housing
14 DCMR § 6113
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
(5) 
Unless  otherwise  specified  in  the  applicable  Regulatory  and 
Operating  Agreement  or  Management  Plan,  or  otherwise 
determined by DCHA, in the event of any family-initiated transfer 
to  or  from  a  DCHA  assisted  living  residence  to  or  from  a 
conventional public housing unit as set forth in paragraph (f)(2) of 
this subsection, then the Family will be responsible for relocation 
costs.
(6)
In addition to the foregoing requirements of this paragraph (g), any 
transfer of any resident from a DCHA assisted living residence 
shall be subject to, and in accordance with the applicable discharge 
and  transfer  requirements  of  the  Assisted  Living  Residence 
Regulatory Act of 2000, effective June 24, 2000 (D.C. Law 13-
127; D.C. Official Code §§ 44-101.01  et seq. (2012 Repl.)).  
(g)
DCHA Assisted Living Residences – Discharge/Termination.
(1)
Any termination of any tenancy at DCHA assisted living facility 
shall  be  subject  to  the  applicable  termination  and  discharge 
provisions  (including  tenants’  rights  and  protections)  of  the 
Assisted Living Residence Regulatory Act of 2000, effective June 
24, 2000 (D.C. Law 13-127; D.C. Official Code §§ 44-101.01 et 
seq. (2012 Repl.)),  in addition to any other DCHA, District or 
federal requirements
(2)
If DCHA determines that a Family residing in an assisted living 
residence is in violation of the Dwelling Lease, except for lease 
violations  predicated  on  criminal  activity  that  threatens  the 
residents  health,  safety  or  right  to  peaceful  enjoyment  of  the 
assisted living residence, drug related criminal activity on or off 
the Leased Premises or at the assisted living residence or violent 
criminal activity, DCHA shall issue to the Lessee a notice to cure 
or vacate, stating in writing the violation(s) which provides the 
basis for the termination the lessee’s right to cure the violations 
and instructions on how to cure the violations, provided that such 
notice and any requirement that tenant vacate the assisted living 
residence  shall  be  subject  to  requirements  of  any  applicable 
District or federal statute or regulation including those governing 
the  assisted  living  residence  or  its  services  or  programs. 
Administrator shall deliver notice orally and in writing.
 
(3) 
The  notice  shall  inform  the  Family  of  its  right  to  file  an 
administrative complaint in accordance with Subsection 6113.8 
(c), and any other administrative rights to which Tenant may be 
entitled by virtue of any District or federal regulation or statute 
Housing
14 DCMR § 6113
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
governing the assisted living residence or its services.
 
(4)
If a Lessee has filed a complaint requesting an administrative 
determination of his or her rights, in accordance with Subsection 
6113.8(d), in response to service of a notice to cure or vacate or a 
notice of lease termination, and or such other notice required by 
District  or  federal  regulation  or  statute  including  the  Assisted 
Living Residence Regulatory Act of 2000, effective June 24, 2000 
(D.C. Law 13-127; D.C. Official Code §§ 44-101.01 et seq. (2012 
Repl.)), to which the assisted living facility, may be subject, and 
has not prevailed, the Lessee shall be issued a notice to vacate, as 
the time to cure has past and the Lessee shall be subject to legal 
action to gain possession of the unit (eviction).
(5)
If DCHA determines that a Family’s violation of the Lease results 
from a change in circumstance which renders the Family ineligible 
for the services offered at the assisted living facility, which change 
is not at the fault or initiative of the Resident, then DCHA may, 
subject to availability and applicable requirements, transfer the 
Family to a unit in conventional public housing, in accordance 
with Subsection 6113.8(f). 
  
(6)
In the event of any lease violations, predicated on criminal activity 
that  threatens  residents’  health,  safety  or  right  to  peaceful 
enjoyment of the assisted living residence, violent or drug related 
criminal activity on or off the Leased Premises or the assisted 
living residence, DCHA shall issue a notice to vacate, together 
with such other notice required by District or federal regulation or 
statute to which the assisted living facility or its programs or 
services may be subject.
 
(7)
DCHA will not issue a notice to cure or vacate, or notice to 
vacate, where DCHA has determined that the head of household 
responsible for the dwelling unit under the Dwelling lease is 
deceased and there are no remaining household members.
SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 7973 (December 26, 1986); as amended by Final Rulemaking 
published at 46 DCR 603 (January 22, 1999), incorporating by reference the text of Proposed Rulemaking published 
at 45 DCR 7913 (November 6, 1998); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 50 DCR 5739 (July 18, 2003); 
as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 9184 (September 24, 2004); as amended by Final 
Rulemaking published at 51 DCR 11326 (December 10, 2004); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 53 
DCR 9290 (November 17, 2006); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 61 DCR 11192 (October 24, 2014); 
as amended by  Final Rulemaking published at 64 DCR 12956 (December 22, 2017); as amended by Final 
Rulemaking published at 66 DCR 6831 (June 7, 2019). 
Housing
14 DCMR § 6113
