District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
5317
REMOVING A HOUSEHOLD MEMBER
5317.1
The Family shall notify DCHA within thirty (30) days of occurrence, if any 
Family member no longer lives in the unit.
5317.2
DCHA shall make the determination whether the person no longer living in the 
unit is considered to be temporarily absent or permanently absent in accordance 
with § 5318, before the Family member can be removed from the household.
5317.3
DCHA shall not remove the Family member from the household until such time 
as it can be sufficiently verified that the person is residing elsewhere. 
5317.4
Sufficient verification that a person is residing elsewhere shall include at least one 
(1) of the following: 
(a)
A lease for another unit;
(b)
A utility bill for another unit;
(c)
Government-issued ID issued after the date the household member 
vacated the leased premises; 
(d)
U.S. Postal Service change-of-address form; 
(e)
School records; 
(f) 
Court order; including but not limited to a Civil Order of Protection;
(g) 
Government benefits record; or 
(h)
Other documentary proof satisfactory to the DCHA.
5317.5
If the Family is unable to produce documentation satisfactory to the DCHA, the 
Family may submit a form attesting under penalty of perjury that the individual 
has permanently vacated the household, and DCHA shall remove the individual 
from the Family composition upon receipt of such form.
5317. 6
If a Family receiving assistance breaks up into two (2) otherwise eligible families 
as a result of divorce, legal separation, or intrafamily offenses, then DCHA shall 
use the following procedures to determine which Family shall continue to be 
assisted: 
(a)
DCHA shall be bound to any decision of the courts, including but not 
limited to in cases of divorce, legal separation, or intrafamily offenses, as 
to who shall continue to receive assistance; 
Housing
14 DCMR § 5317
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
(b)
In the case that there is no judicial decision relating to who will continue 
to receive the assistance, DCHA shall consider the following:
(1)
Any  incidents  of  domestic  violence,  dating  violence,  sexual 
assault,  or  stalking,  or  an  intrafamily  offense,  in  which  case, 
DCHA shall ensure that the victim retains assistance;
(2)
The interest of minor children; or
(3)
The interest of an ill, elderly, or disabled Family member.
5317.7
DCHA shall not determine that both families shall continue to be assisted unless 
an exception is required under §§ 8908.6(c) or 8908.7 in accordance with VAWA, 
or other applicable laws.
5317.8 
If the Head of Household has been determined to be permanently absent due to a 
medical reason, death, incarceration, or being the perpetrator in criminal acts of 
domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, DCHA may permit 
a remaining adult family member to become Head of Household if the remaining 
Family is comprised of one or more of the following persons:
(a)  
Minor children;
(b)  
Elderly; 
(c)  
Disabled; or
(d) 
A victim of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
5317.9
DCHA shall notify the remaining family member in writing of its determination 
within thirty (30) days of receipt of the completed application. 
5317.10
If DCHA determines that a remaining adult family member is eligible to become 
Head of Household under § 5318.9, the adult family member must first:
(a)
Submit an application; and
(b)
Attend a briefing.
5317.11
Live-in Aides, Foster Children, and adult wards are not considered part of the 
Family and shall not be considered remaining Family members. 
5317.12
If the Head of Household leaves the assisted unit voluntarily, other adult Family 
members  shall  not  be  considered  remaining  Family  members  and  housing 
assistance shall not be continued unless the remaining Family members can 
Housing
14 DCMR § 5317
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
provide the information required by § 5405.1(d). This shall be considered a 
voluntary withdrawal from the Program that is not subject to informal hearing 
procedures. 
5317.13
If the Head of Household dies or permanently vacates the unit and there are 
remaining Family members but no remaining adult household members, or none 
who are able to serve as Head of Household, then an adult who is not listed as a 
member of the household composition may reside in the assisted unit and may 
apply to become Head of Household.  The following shall apply under these 
circumstances:
(a)
The applicant to be Head of Household must produce evidence of a 
caregiving relationship with the remaining minor children or disabled 
adults.  Such documentation may include, but is not limited to, court 
order; notarized authorization from the children’s legal guardian; school or 
medical  records;  public  benefit  records;  and  sworn  statements  from 
medical, legal, or social service professionals;
(b)
Where the remaining Family members are minors, the applicant to be 
Head of Household must either:
(1) 
Obtain Custodial Power of Attorney; or 
(2) 
Commence  legal  proceedings  to  obtain  legal  guardianship  or 
custody of the minor children.  So long as such proceeding is 
pending, and the applicant has produced evidence of a caregiving 
relationship and meets DCHA’s other screening criteria, DCHA 
shall consider the applicant to be eligible to be Head of Household 
and the voucher shall be transferred to that person;
(c)
In the case of § 5318.4(b)(ii), the applicant’s eligibility to be Head of 
Household is contingent on legal proceedings pending or being resolved in 
favor of the applicant.  If a court of competent jurisdiction denies the 
applicant’s petition for custody or guardianship, no appeal is pending, or 
the  appeal  period  has  expired,  DCHA  will  determine  the  applicant 
ineligible to be Head of Household and may issue a Recommendation for 
Termination (RFT).  In that event, another remaining adult household 
member may submit an application to be Head of Household within thirty 
(30) days of the issuance of the RFT, and DCHA will process such 
application in accordance with the requirements of this section; and
(d)
Where more than one (1) adult has competing claims to become Head of 
Household as caregivers of the remaining minor children, DCHA shall 
follow the ruling of a court of competent jurisdiction regarding the 
custody or guardianship of the children. 
Housing
14 DCMR § 5317
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
5317.14
During any period that a caregiver is considered a visitor, the income of the 
caretaker shall not be counted in annual income and the caregiver does not qualify 
the Family for any deductions from income.
SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 7890, 7897 (June 29, 2012); as amended by Final Rulemaking 
published at 59 DCR 11004 (September 21, 2012); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 65 DCR 13209 
(November 30, 2018); as amended by Final Rulemaking published at 67 DCR 9071 (July 24, 2020). 
Housing
14 DCMR § 5317
