District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
9199
DEFINITIONS
Control Group – HCVP participants who are randomly selected for the program, 
but have their vouchers administered pursuant to the existing DCHA 
HCVP Administrative Plan.  These families shall be followed for the 
entire length of the program and their progress toward self-sufficiency 
shall be compared to the study group. 
Current/Anticipated  Income –  Prospective  annual  income  based  upon  the 
earnings and benefits received at the time of the certification.  It may be 
used  in  calculating  income  used  to  determine  TTP  in  certain 
circumstances.
Elderly  Household -  Elderly  households  are  defined,  for  the  purposes  of 
participation in the Rent Reform Demonstration, (both the experimental 
and control groups), as households whose head, spouse or sole member is 
56 years or older at the time the family would enter the study group.
Family Share - The Family Share is calculated by subtracting the amount of the 
total housing assistance payment (HAP) from gross rent. 
Interim Recertification – a certification of a household’s income that occurs in 
between  regularly  scheduled  triennial  recertification.  Households  may 
request one interim recertification if they experience a reduction in income 
each year.  
Minimum Rent – The minimum amount a Head of Household must contribute 
toward their lease rent.  This amount must be paid directly to the owner 
each month, even if 28% of monthly income is less than the minimum 
rent. The minimum rent for study participants is $75.
Rent Reform Demonstration – a study commissioned by the U.S. Department of 
Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to evaluate a Housing Choice 
Voucher  (HCVP)  alternative  rent  reform  policy.  The  demonstration 
implements alternative rent calculations and recertification strategies at 
several PHAs across the country in order to fully test the policies.  DCHA 
is one of the participants in the study.
Rent  Burden –  When  a  family  is  initially  certified  for  the  Rent  Reform 
Demonstration, and when they move to a new unit, the maximum rent 
burden is 40% of the household’s gross monthly income.  If the family’s 
TTP exceeds this amount, the unit shall be disapproved. This maximum 
rent burden does not apply in future certifications if the household remains 
in the same unit.
Housing
14 DCMR § 9199
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
Rent to Owner - The amount payable monthly by the Family as rent to the unit 
owner which equals the TTP minus the utility allowance, if applicable. 
However, if the Family Share is less than the Minimum Rent the rent to 
owner equals minimum rent.  
Retrospective Income –  Total household income that was received in the 12 
month (look-back) period prior to the recertification being conducted. 
Study Group - HCVP Participants who are randomly selected for the program 
and  shall  have  the  alternative  rent  policies  of  the  Rent  Reform 
Demonstration applied to their subsidy participation.  This family shall be 
followed for the entire length of the program and their progress toward 
self-sufficiency shall be compared to the control group. 
Temporary Total Tenant Payment – a Total Tenant Payment set for a six-
month grace period.
Total Tenant Payment (TTP) – The TTP is 28% of the Family gross income or 
minimum rent, whichever is higher. 
 
Triennial Recertification – certification of a household’s income and family 
composition that is used to establish the household’s TTP three years from 
the date of the initial recertification for entry into this program.
SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 61 DCR 9596 (September 19, 2014).
Housing
14 DCMR § 9199
