District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
5325
GENERAL POLICIES FOR ANNUAL INSPECTIONS
5325.1 
Units  that  do  not  meet  the  criteria  for  biennial  Housing  Quality  Standard 
inspections as set forth in § 5325.5 shall be subject to annual HQS inspections.
5325.2 
If the tenant or Owner complains that the unit does not meet Housing Quality 
Standards, DCHA shall conduct a complaint inspection.  DCHA shall only inspect 
violations subject to the complaint from the Owner or Family, but if other 
violations  are  noticed  during  the  inspection,  DCHA  shall  also  note  those 
violations and require the Owner or Family to repair the violations.
5325.3
The Owner or Family shall be given time to correct the failed violations pursuant 
to the following guidelines: 
(a)
If the violation is listed in the emergency repair items list as set forth in § 
5326, the Owner or Family shall be given twenty-four (24) hours to 
correct the violation after being notified; or
(b)
For all other cited violations, the Owner or Family shall be given thirty 
(30) days to correct the violation.
5325.4
Minor violations that are listed as “Passed with Comments” on the inspection 
report shall not be re-inspected on site. Instead the tenant and Owner will be given 
a self-certification form, whereby they can certify that the violations have been 
repaired.
(a)    
If the Family does not repair the minor violations attributable to the 
Family, the Family will not be approved for a transfer voucher except in 
emergency circumstances as set forth in § 8500.1; or
(b)
If the Owner does not repair the minor violations attributable to the 
Owner, the Owner will not be approved for an annual rent increase.
5325.5 
Criteria for Biennial HQS Inspections:
(a) 
Units that receive DCHA Moderate Rehabilitation Program assistance, 
Single  Room  Occupancy  Program  assistance,  Federal  Project-based 
assistance, or Local Project-based assistance shall automatically qualify 
for biennial HQS inspections.
(b) 
DCHA may approve units that receive Federal Tenant-based assistance or 
Local Tenant-based assistance for biennial HQS inspections when the 
units have not had a final failed inspection due to a Family or Owner 
violation in the past two (2) years from the date of DCHA approval.
Housing
14 DCMR § 5325
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
(c) 
DCHA will conduct a higher percentage of annual Quality Assurance 
HQS inspections on any unit qualified for biennial HQS inspections.
(d) 
DCHA has the right to reinstitute ann       ual HQS inspections for units 
that were previously approved for biennial HQS inspections if there is a 
pattern of HQS non-compliance for either the Family or Owner.
(e) 
Approval of a unit for biennial HQS inspection does not waive the right of 
DCHA to inspect the unit at any time, or the rights of the Owner or Family 
to have DCHA conduct a complaint or compliance inspection.
SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 59 DCR 7890 (June 29, 2012); as amended by Final Rulemaking 
published at 63 DCR 9693 (July 22, 2016).
Housing
14 DCMR § 5325
