District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
2404
SALE CONTRACT NEGOTIATION AND SETTLEMENT
2404.1
The Mayor shall have not less than one hundred fifty (150) days from the 
Owner’s receipt of the Mayor’s written statement of interest to negotiate a sale 
contract for the Housing Accommodation with the Owner, which time may be 
extended by the Owner’s written consent. 
2404.2 
For every one (1) day of delay beyond the seven (7) days in which the Owner 
shall provide information as required by Subsection 2402.3(c) of this chapter, the 
negotiation period shall be extended by one (1) day.
2404.3
The Owner and Mayor shall bargain in good faith.
2404.4
In accordance with the Act, the following shall constitute prima facie evidence of 
bargaining without good faith:
(a)
The Owner’s failure to offer the Mayor a price or term at least as favorable 
as that offered to a third party or Tenant Organization;
(b)
The failure of the Owner to make a sale contract with the Mayor that 
substantially conforms with the asking price and material terms of a third 
party sale contract;
(c)
The intentional failure of the Owner or the Mayor to comply with the 
provisions of Title IV or Title IV-A of the Act; and
(d)
The Owner contracts or sells the Housing Accommodation to a Tenant 
Organization or any other third party for a price more than ten percent 
(10%) less than the price offered to the Mayor.
2404.5 
The Owner shall not require the Mayor to pay a deposit of more than five percent 
(5%) of the sale contract price in order to make a sale contract, or refuse to refund 
a deposit in the event of the Mayor’s good faith failure to perform under the sale 
contract.
2404.6
If a Tenant Organization is formed and delivers an application for registration to 
the Mayor pursuant to Title IV of the Act, the Mayor shall have an additional 
fifteen (15) days to negotiate a sale contract with the Owner.
2404.7
The Mayor shall have up to sixty (60) days after the sale contract ratification to 
complete settlement.
2404.8
If the Owner provides any extension of time to a Tenant Organization under Title 
IV of the Act, the Owner shall automatically grant the Mayor the same extension 
of time under Title IV-A of the Act. The Owner shall provide prompt written 
Housing
14 DCMR § 2404
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
notification  to  the  Mayor  of  any  extensions  of  time  granted  to  a  Tenant 
Organization.
2404.9 
All time periods for negotiation and settlement by the Mayor are minimum time 
periods, and the Owner may give the Mayor a reasonable extension of such time 
periods in writing.
2404.10
At  settlement,  the  Mayor  or  the  Mayor’s  Assignee  shall  provide  to  each 
Household in the Housing Accommodation a written statement indicating the 
following:
(a)
The name, address, and contact information of the new Owner;
(b)
Instructions to send or make all payments;
(c)
The current terms of tenancy status or lease agreement; and 
(d)
Any program verification requirements, as applicable. 
SOURCE: Final Rulemaking published at 65 DCR 12627 (November 16, 2018).
Housing
14 DCMR § 2404
