District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
5774
VEHICLE POLICY
5774.1
All RAD Covered Projects are private property and parking is prohibited unless 
approved  by  the  owner.  In  addition,  the  owner  has  the  right  to  tow  any 
unauthorized vehicle on RAD Covered Projects as provided in this chapter.
5774.2
Definitions
(a)
"Abandoned Vehicle" shall mean any  motor vehicle, trailer, or semi-
trailer that:
(1)
Is inoperable and left unattended on public property for more 
than seventy-two (72) hours;
(2)
Has remained illegally on public property for more than 72 
hours;
(3)
Has remained on public property for more than 72 hours and is:
(A)
Not displaying current valid registration; or
(B)
Displaying registration of another vehicle;
(4)
Has remained on RAD Covered Project for more than 72 hours 
and is inoperable in that one or more of its major mechanical 
components, including, but not limited to, engine, transmission, 
drive train or wheels, is missing or not functional unless such 
vehicle is kept in an enclosed building completely shielded from 
view of individuals on the adjoining properties; or
(5)
Has remained unclaimed on RAD Covered Project for 72 hours 
after proper notice as provided for in Subsection 5774.6 below.
(b)
"Junk Vehicle" shall mean any motor vehicle, trailer, or semi-trailer that 
is wrecked, dismantled, or in irreparable condition.
(c)
"Nuisance Vehicle" shall mean any motor vehicle, trailer, or semi-trailer 
that is a danger to the public health, safety, and welfare of residents or 
employees including, but not limited to, vehicles that are on cinder 
blocks/bricks,  harbors  rats,  snakes  or  other  vermin,  have  open  and 
accessible interior or trunk, or exhibits broken windows, torn sheet metal, 
or exposed sharp metal.
(d)
"RAD Covered Project" shall mean all property, including parking lots, 
sidewalks or internal driveways or streets that is a part of DCHA’s RAD 
Project-Based Program.
Housing
14 DCMR § 5774
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
(e)
"Public Property" shall mean all property, including public streets, alleys, 
parking lots or other real property owned by the District of Columbia 
government.
5774.3 
Vehicles on Public Property
(a)
If the RAD Covered Project owner observes an Abandoned, Nuisance, or 
Junk Vehicle on a public street or other public property, the owner of the 
RAD Covered Project may contact the District of Columbia Department 
of Public Works, Abandoned and Junk Vehicle  Division to have the 
vehicle removed from public property within the RAD Covered Project.
(b)
Owners of a RAD Covered Project may not remove an Abandoned, 
Nuisance or Junk Vehicle located on Public Property. Only the District 
of Columbia Department of Public Works may remove such vehicles.
5774.4
Stolen Vehicles. If the owner of the RAD Covered Project determines that a 
vehicle is stolen, whether on RAD Project-Based Property or Public Property, the 
owner may notify the Metropolitan Police Department of the stolen vehicle or 
may request that DCHA's Office of Public Safety report the vehicle stolen on the 
requisite Metropolitan Police Department report form.
5774.5
Removal of Vehicles from RAD Covered Projects
(a)
If the owner of a RAD Covered Project determines that a vehicle is a 
Nuisance Vehicle located on the RAD Covered Project, the owner may 
immediately remove the vehicle from the RAD Covered Project.
(b)
If the owner determines a vehicle is an Abandoned or Junk Vehicle 
located on a RAD Covered Project for more than 72 hours, a Notice of 
Infraction may be issued and a Warning Notice to Remove the Vehicle 
affixed to the vehicle.
(c)
The Notice of Infraction may be issued and Warning Notice may be 
affixed  by  DCHA's  Office  of  Public  Safety,  Metropolitan Police 
Department  or  other  authorized  appropriate  District  of  Columbia 
officials.
(d)
The owner of the Abandoned or Junk Vehicle will have seventy-two (72) 
hours to remove the vehicle from the RAD Covered Project.
(e)
Prior to initiating towing procedures, the owner of a RAD Covered 
Project will attempt to identify and contact the owner of the vehicle via 
telephone. In the event the RAD property owner is able to contact the 
Housing
14 DCMR § 5774
District of Columbia Municipal Regulations
 
vehicle owner, the RAD property owner will advise the owner of the 
following:
(1)
The owner's vehicle is parked on a RAD Covered Project;
(2)
The owner's timely removal of the vehicle is necessary to avoid 
the vehicle being towed;
(3)
The vehicle was issued a Notice of Infraction for being parked 
on a RAD Covered Project; and
(4)
The process for recovering the vehicle if towed from the RAD 
Covered Project.
5774.6
Towing of Vehicles.
(a)
The owner of the RAD Covered Project will make two attempts to 
contact the owner of a vehicle that has been issued a Notice of Infraction 
for  being  parked on  DCHA's  Property  as  provided  for  above.  The 
attempts will be no less than twenty-four (24) hours apart.
(b)
If the owner of the RAD Covered Project is unable to contact the owner 
of a vehicle after two attempts, the property owner will proceed with the 
removal of the vehicle from the RAD Covered Project.
(c)
If the vehicle is not removed from the RAD Covered Project within 72 
hours of the issuance of the Notice of Infraction and Warning Notice, the 
owner of the RAD Covered Project will have the vehicle removed by 
contacting either:
(1)
The  District  of  Columbia  Department  of  Public  Works, 
Abandoned and Junk Vehicle Division; or
(2)
A tow crane operator licensed with the District of Columbia.
SOURCE:  Final Rulemaking at 64 DCR 12956 (December 22, 2017); as amended by Final Rulemaking published 
at 66 DCR 6831 (June 7, 2019). 
Housing
14 DCMR § 5774
