1804
TENANT SELECTION FROM WAITING LIST AND 
APPLICATION INTERVIEW
1804.1
When Certificates are available, applicants on the waiting list shall be contacted in writing by 
DCHA for an application interview in the order in which they appear on the waiting list.
1804.2
DCHA shall assign each applicant an appointment time. Applicants may contact DCHA to 
reschedule an appointment. Applicants who do not appear on the scheduled date and time and do 
not contact DCHA prior to the scheduled appointment to reschedule the appointment shall be 
declared ineligible and be so notified in writing by DCHA.
1804.3
Applicants may reschedule the appointment only once. If the applicant fails to appear on the 
scheduled date and time due to an emergency, the appointment may be rescheduled at the 
discretion of DCHA.
1804.4
All applicants shall have a personal interview with DCHA to verify eligibility, income and other 
data before a final determination of eligibility is made.
1804.5
At the interview with the applicant, a DCHA interviewer shall obtain and verify the following 
information (or other appropriate information) which shall be provided by the applicant:
(a)
Proof of birth;
(b)
Proof of residency and domicile in the District of Columbia, which shall include the 
following:
(i)
Proof of motor vehicle registration in the District of Columbia, if the 
applicant or family member owns a motor vehicle;
(ii)
Proof of registration to vote in the District of Columbia, if the applicant 
or family member is registered to vote;
(iii)
Proof of income tax filing or withholding in the District of Columbia, if 
the applicant or family member pays state or local income tax; and
(iv)
Proof of occupancy in a dwelling unit located in the District of Columbia;
(c)
Verification of disability or handicap;
(d)
Social Security benefit information for all household members receiving Social 
Security;
(e)
Earned income for all household members who have income from employment;
(f)
Non-employment income for all household members receiving income from any 
source other than employment;
(g)
Statement of non-employment for all unemployed household members;
(h)
Verification of the value of assets and income from assets;
(i)
Verification of support for all household members receiving alimony, child support 
or other support income from outside the household;
(j)
Verification of child care expense, for the care of children under thirteen (13) years 
of age, to enable a member of the household to work or to further his or her 
education; and
(k)
Verification of full-time student status for household members eighteen (18) years of 
age or older.
1804.6
DCHA shall assist the applicant to prepare requests for third-party verification of information 
that the applicant is not able to verify through documents brought to the interview.
1804.7
After reviewing the application and additional supporting documents provided by the applicant 
and obtaining necessary third-party verifications, DCHA shall determine the applicant’s 
eligibility in accordance with § 1810 of this chapter.
1804.8
Each applicant determined to be ineligible shall be so notified in writing. The notification shall 
state the reasons for the determination and advise the applicant that if the applicant wishes to 
review the determination, the applicant has the right to an official review of the decision pursuant 
to the procedure provided in § 1710 of this subtitle.
SOURCE: Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 33 DCR 4396, 4406 (July 25, 1986); as 
amended by Notice of Final Rulemaking published at 36 DCR 4472, 4476 (June 23, 1989).
